Hi everybody.
Welcome to Beginner 1.
In these videos, I hope to
teach you some basic English.
So, these videos are for low level beginners.
Okay…
Now when you watch these videos,
I want you to pay attention.
Okay…
Watch all the videos in the series.
Please listen carefully and if there are any
words or expressions that you don’t know,
please check your dictionary.
Another thing you should do is repeat after me.
Repeating is a really good practice.
Okay…
So, I know that some of these videos are hard.
But please don’t give up.
If you try your best, and watch all of these
videos,
I know that your English will get better.
Okay, well let’s get started.
Hi, everybody and welcome to this video.
Now in this video, I want to talk about the
difference between consonants and vowels.
Now, in the English alphabet,
there are twenty-six letters.
And in the alphabet, there are five main vowels
and one special vowel.
And the rest are consonants.
So, let’s look at the board.
Here’s the alphabet.
The first letter, ‘a’, is a vowel.
The next letter, ‘b’, is a consonant.
‘c’ is a consonant.
‘d’ consonant.
‘e’ is a vowel.
Then, ‘f’, is a consonant.
‘g’ consonant.
‘h’ consonant.
‘i’ is another vowel.
‘j’ is a consonant.
‘k’ consonant.
‘l’, ‘m’, ‘n’ are consonants.
‘o’ is another vowel.
‘p’, ‘q’, ‘r’, ’s’ and ‘t’,
these are all consonants.
‘u’ is the last main vowel.
‘v’ consonant.
‘w’ consonant.
‘x’ consonant.
‘y’ is the special vowel.
And we’ll talk about that more later on.
And ‘z’ is the last letter,
and it is a consonant.
Okay, so, there are twenty-six
letters in the alphabet.
There are five main vowels.
One special vowel.
And the rest are consonant.
Okay, let’s move on to the next part.
Let’s look at some words.
Now all English words have vowels.
Maybe one or many vowels.
So, let’s look at these words.
The first word is “cat”.
Okay, we have ‘c’ is a consonant.
‘a’ a vowel.
‘t’ consonant.
“Egg”.
‘e’ is a vowel.
And ‘g’, ‘g’.
‘g’ is a consonant.
“Hit”.
‘h’ is a consonant.
‘i’ a vowel.
And ‘t’ a consonant.
“Top”.
‘t’ is a consonant.
‘o’ is a vowel.
And ‘p’ a consonant.
The last word is “cut”.
‘c’ is a consonant.
‘u’ a vowel.
And ‘t’ a consonant.
So, we have the main vowels:
‘a’, ’e’, ‘i’, ‘o’, ‘u’.
Now, I said ‘y’ is a special vowel.
That’s because sometimes it’s a vowel
and sometimes it’s a consonant.
So, let’s look.
In the word, “why”,
the letter ‘y’ sounds like ‘i’.
“Why”.
So, it is a vowel.
“Bicycle”.
The letter ‘y’ sounds like ‘i’.
‘i’ is the letter ‘i’, right,
it sounds like the letter ‘i’.
So, in this case ‘y’ is also a vowel.
“Pretty”.
‘y’ sounds like ‘e’.
Okay…
“Pretty”.
So, it’s a vowel.
Now, in the last two words,
“you” and “yes”, the letter ‘y’ is a consonant.
Usually, if ‘y’ comes at the beginning of a word,
or if it makes a /u/ sound,
for example, “you”, “yes”,
it is a consonant. Okay…
So again, five main vowels:
‘a’, ’e’, ’i’, ’o’, ’u’.
And ‘y’ the special vowel.
Now to help us remember vowels, we can say,
“a, e, i, o, u and sometimes y.”
Okay, repeat again after me.
One more time, faster.
“a, e, i, o, u and sometimes y.”
Okay, and that’s the end of this video. Thank you.
Hi everybody and welcome to this video.
In this video, we’re going to
talk about using ‘a’ or ‘an’.
Okay.
We use ‘a’ or ‘an’ in front of nouns.
Well, what is a noun?
A noun is a person, place, thing, or animal.
Okay, so let’s look at the board.
The first noun we have is “banana”.
“banana”, starts with the consonant ‘b’.
So, we put “a banana”.
“a banana”.
Look at the next word.
“Apple”.
In this case, the first letter is ‘a’.
‘a’ is a vowel.
Remember the vowels are a, e, i, o, u,
so we have to put ‘an’.
“an apple”.
“cat”.
Hmmm.
The first letter, ‘c’, is a consonant.
So, should we put, ‘a’ or ‘an’?
Remember, if it’s a consonant, we have to put ‘a’.
“a cat”.
The next word, “boy”.
Again, the word starts with a consonant: ‘b’.
So, we have to say, “a boy”.
The next word, “egg”, has the letter ‘e’ in front.
‘e’ is a vowel.
So, what do we put?
We put ‘an’.
If we read it, it sounds like “an egg.”
“an egg”.
Okay, and the last word is “ant”.
“ant” starts with the vowel ‘a’.
So again, we must put……”an ant”.
“an ant”.
Now, let’s go through these words together.
“a banana”.
“an apple”.
Keep in mind that when you have ‘an’ in front,
it has to sound like almost one word.
“an apple”.
“a cat”.
“a boy”.
“an egg”.
Again, it sounds like one word.
"an egg".
"an ant"
Okay. Let’s move on the next part.
Okay, let’s do some extra practice.
Ahhh, I have some nouns on the board.
Remember, a noun is a person, place, thing
or animal.
So let’s go through them one by one.
“a book”, “book” is a thing.
It’s a thing that we read.
“park”, is a place.
It’s a place we go.
“umbrella” is a thing.
Right. Umbrella is a thing that we use when it’s
raining.
“elephant”.
“elephant” is an animal.
“doctor”.
“doctor” is a person.
And “orange”.
"orange" is a thing that we eat.
Okay. Now, I’m going to say ‘a’ or ‘an’
in front of the nouns.
I want you to listen and see if you can hear
the difference.
Okay…
We have “book”.
In that case we say, “a book”.
“a book”.
We have to say, “a book”.
Okay…
The next one is “park”.
We say, “a park”.
“a park”.
Remember, we put ‘a’ in front of words
that begin with consonants.
‘b’ and ‘p’ are consonants.
That’s why we say, “a book”, “a park”.
Okay…
How about the next word?
“an umbrella”.
Could you here the difference?
We say ‘an’ because umbrella starts with
a vowel: ‘u’.
“an umbrella”.
Okay…
“elephant”.
We should we say?
“an elephant”.
Again, 'elephant' starts with a vowel.
“a doctor”.
And the last word, “an orange”.
“an orange”.
Again, we have to say, “an orange” because
‘o’ is a vowel.
So, let’s go through each word one more time.
“a book”.
Okay…
“a park”.
“an umbrella”.
Notice it sounds like one word.
“an elephant”
“a doctor”
And the last one.
“an orange”
Okay. So that’s the end of this video.
I hope you can remember when to use ‘a’ and ‘an’.
Okay, thank you. Bye.
Hi, everybody and welcome to this video.
Now, in this lesson I’m going to talk about
singular and plural nouns.
Okay.
Singular means one.
And plural means more than one or many.
Okay.
So let’s look at the board.
This part is showing singular nouns.
Okay, remember, singular means one.
Okay.
So when the noun is singular,
we put ‘a’ or ‘an’.
So let’s look.
“a ring”
That means one ring.
“a dog”
Again, one dog.
“a teacher”
One teacher.
“an apple”
One apple.
“an egg”
One egg.
So again, one…. noun is singular.
Okay.
Now over here, we have plural nouns.
Plural means more than one.
Two, three, four, and so on.
So, many.
Okay.
So, when we have a plural noun, we have to,
don’t forget, we have to put ‘s’ or ‘es’.
Again, if there’s more than one,
if the noun is plural,
you have to put ‘s’ or ‘es’.
Now the nouns here, you just have to add an ‘s’.
Okay, and we’re going to
go through them right now.
“two rings”.
Okay, we had one ring.
“a ring”.
Now we have “two rings.”
With an ‘s’.
Okay.
We had “a dog”.
The plural is “three dogs”.
Again, ‘s’
“three dogs”
“a teacher”
One teacher
“four teachers”
Don’t forget the ‘s’.
Okay, you must not forget that.
“an apple”.
That’s one apple.
Then we have plural.
“five apples”
Okay.
And the last one.
“an egg”.
One egg.
“six eggs”
Don’t forget ‘s’.
Okay.
I really need you to remember that.
“two rings”
“three dogs”
“four teachers”
“five apples”
and “six eggs”.
Okay, let’s move on to the next part.
Now we have some more nouns.
These nouns are a little bit different.
Uhhh, when they’re singular it’s the same.
You put ‘a’ or ‘an’ in front.
But when you want to make them
plural, you have to add ‘es’.
Remember, I said, you can add ‘s’ or ‘es’
to make a noun plural…more than one.
So again, these nouns you have to add ‘es’.
So let’s go through them one more time.
Okay.
So we have “a bus”.
“a bus”
Again, that means one bus.
“a box”
“a watch”
Okay, one.
“a kiss”
And “an ax”.
“an ax”
One.
Okay.
Now, we’re going to move on to the plural.
Remember, again, to make the plural, or more
than one, here, we add ‘es’.
Okay.
“a bus”
One.
“two buses”
“a box”
“three boxes”
“a watch”.
“four watches”
‘es’ right.
“a kiss”
One.
“five kisses”
Add the ‘es’.
And the last one.
“an ax”
Okay, we have “six axes”.
“six axes”
So don’t forget.
We have to put
‘es’ to make these nouns
plural.
Okay, let’s move on to the next part.
So, how do we know if we should put ‘s’
or ‘es’ to make the noun plural?
Well, for most nouns, you just have to put ‘s’.
Okay, for most of them.
But, for some, you have to put ‘es’.
And how do we know?
Well…
Let’s look at the board.
We have some nouns.
The first one is “church”.
Okay.
“Church” ends in ‘ch’.
So if the noun ends in ‘ch’, you have
to put ‘es’.
Okay.
So it becomes “churches”.
So again, if the noun ends in ‘ch’,
add ‘es’ at the end to make it plural.
The same goes for the next word “brush”.
You’ll notice “brush” ends in ‘sh’.
Okay.
So if it ends in ‘sh’, same thing, we
add ‘es’ at the end to make it plural.
Okay.
The next word is 'fox'.
We have the letter ‘x’ at the end.
Okay.
All nouns that end in ‘x’, we have to
put ‘es’ to make it plural.
Okay, so, ‘ch’, ‘sh’, ‘x’.
If the noun ends with these, put ‘es’.
And the last one is “dress”.
Okay, we have ‘ss’ at the end.
Same thing.
Put ‘es’ at the end to make it plural.
Okay.
“dresses”
Again, if it ends in ‘ss’ put ‘es’.
Okay, so please, don’t
forget ‘ch’, ‘sh’, ‘x’, ‘ss’,
we must put ‘es’ at the end.
Most of the other nouns we just add ‘s’.
Okay.
Now we have some special nouns on this side.
“Potato, tomato, volcano”.
Now, most nouns that end in ‘o’, like “photo”,
all we have to do is add an ‘s’
to make it plural.
“photos”.
Okay.
But these are special because we actually
have to put ‘es’ at the end… to make
them…plural.
Okay.
So we have “potatoes, tomatoes, volcanoes”.
Again, these are a little bit special.
For most nouns that end in ‘o’, we just
add ‘s’.
Okay, and, uhhh, let’s go to the final part.
Okay, let’s do some extra practice.
On the board, I have some nouns.
Some are singular and some are plural.
We have to decide together
if we should put ‘s’ or ‘es’
or make them singular.
Okay.
So you have to listen carefully and
remember what we learned in this video.
Okay.
“two books”
Right, this is plural.
There are two.
“two books”
We have to put an ‘s’.
Okay.
The next one.
“three class”
Hmmmm.
“class” ends with an ‘s’.
So what do we put?
“three classes”
Okay.
So again the plural is “three classes”.
“a lion”
Do we have to put anything?
No.
No ‘s’ or ‘es’ because this is singular.
There’s just one lion.
“a lion”
“six hats”
We have to put an ‘s’.
Okay.
The next noun is “seven match”.
What do we put?
Well, we have a ‘ch’.
So we have to put “matches”.
“seven matches”
Okay.
And the last one is “one bat”.
“one bat”.
We do not put an ‘s’ or ‘es’ because
again, it’s just one.
We don’t have to put anything after ‘bat’.
Okay, this is singular.
Okay, so, in this video, we learned how to
make a noun singular.
Okay.
And how to make a noun plural.
Remember, singular means one.
Plural means more than one.
And remember, don’t forget, we have to put
‘s’ or ‘es’.
Okay.
And thanks for joining.
That’s the end of this video.
Bye.
Hi everybody and welcome to this video.
In this video, we’re going to
talk about subjective pronouns.
So, let’s take a look at the board.
Here they are.
The subjective pronouns.
Please take a careful look.
They’re very important in English.
Okay.
So, the first subjective pronoun is ‘I’.
“I” means me.
“I’m Esther”.
I
He
Now, “he” is only used for boys or men.
Okay.
He
So another boy or man is “he”.
“She” is used for girls or women.
Okay.
She
It
“It”
is used for a place like a school,
an animal like a dog, or a thing like a chair.
Okay.
It
The next one is “you”.
“You” means you.
Okay. “you”.
We
“We” means other people and me.
For example, “I sing”, “you sing”,
then “we sing”.
Okay. “we”.
And the last one is “they”.
“They” means many people,
places, animals or things.
Okay.
So, more than one.
If there’s more than one, we use
the subjective pronoun ‘they’.
Okay, let’s move on to the next part.
Okay, so let’s practice together
with subjective pronouns.
The first sentence on the
board says, “Jenny sings”.
Now Jenny is one girl.
So we can say, “She sings”.
“Jack sings”.
Jack is one boy.
So we have to say, “he sings”.
The last sentence says, “Jenny and Jack
sing”.
Now Jenny and Jack are two people.
So we have to say, “they sing”.
Okay, let’s move on to the next part.
Okay, let’s do some more practice.
The first sentence on the board says,
“The cat runs”.
‘The cat’ is an animal, so we have to
say, “It runs”.
The next sentence says, “The dog and cat run”.
Now, ‘the dog and cat’, they are two animals.
So anytime you have two or more
things, we say, “They run”.
‘They’.
Okay, now, for the last sentence, I’m
going to talk about my cat, Ongee.
Ongee is a cat.
He’s an animal.
But he has a name.
He’s a boy cat.
Okay and I love him.
And he’s like family.
So, “Ongee runs”.
I can say “He runs”.
Okay.
Let’s move on to the next part.
Okay, here are some more examples.
But, this time, you have to figure out the
subjective pronoun together with me.
Okay.
So, “My students study”.
What should we use?
Well, ‘My students’, there’s an ‘s’.
Right.
They’re people and there’s more than one.
Many people.
So we have to use the subjective pronoun, ‘they’.
“They study”.
The next example.
“John is handsome”.
Okay, ‘John’, that’s a person.
There’s only one.
Right…
And it’s a boy, ‘John’.
So what should we use?
We have to use the subjective pronoun, ‘he’.
One boy.
We say, “he”.
“He is handsome”.
Okay, the last one.
“Pizza is delicious”.
‘Pizza’ is a thing.
And there’s only one.
Right.
There’s no ‘s’.
One pizza.
We say, “it”.
“It is delicious”.
Okay.
Let’s move on to some more examples.
Okay, the first example says,
“Seoul is a city”.
Now, ‘Seoul’ is a place.
Okay.
So we have to use the subjective pronoun, ‘it’.
“It is a city”.
The next example says,
“My parents love Ongee”.
Now, ‘Ongee’ is my cat.
Well, ‘my parents’, they are two people.
My mom and my dad.
So, what do I use?
I have to say, “they”.
“They love Ongee”.
The last example is very
similar to the second one.
“My parents and I love Ongee”.
Okay.
The difference is… it says, “and I”.
So this is ‘my parents’ with ‘me’.
So I have to say, “we”.
“We love Ongee”.
Okay.
All of us.
Okay, so, in this video we
learned about subjective pronouns.
I hope you guys have a good understanding
of ‘when’ and ‘how’ to use them.
Thank you for watching and I’ll see you
guys next time.
Bye.
Hi, everybody.
Welcome to this video.
Now, in this video, we’re going to talk
about subjective pronouns,
‘be’ verbs, and also, contractions.
So let’s take a look at the board.
Okay.
First, we have the subjective pronouns.
And we have the ‘be’ verbs: am, is, and are.
Okay.
So let’s look at the first one.
“I am”.
“I am Esther”.
The contraction for ‘I am’ is ‘I’m’.
“I’m”.
Now, a contraction is a more common way of
saying subjective pronouns and their ‘be’ verb.
It’s faster and quicker and shorter.
Okay, it’s more common.
I want you to use contractions.
Okay.
So, “I am” becomes “I’m”.
“He is” – “he’s”.
“She is” - “she’s”.
“It is” - “it’s”.
Okay, let’s move on to the bottom.
“You are” becomes “you’re”.
“You’re”.
“We are” – “we’re”.
“We’re”.
and “They are”.
The contraction is “they’re”.
“They’re”.
Okay, let’s move on to the next part.
Okay.
We’re going to take a look at some sentences
using the ‘be’ verbs.
Now, notice on the board,
I only used contractions.
Okay.
For example, instead of “I am”, I’m
going to say “I’m”.
So, the first sentence.
“I’m a student”.
Okay.
This means one.
So we have to say, “a student”.
“a”
Now many people make the mistake of saying,
“I’m student”, but that’s wrong.
Okay.
You have to put ‘a’.
Now, before I read it, you
have to listen carefully.
‘I’m a’ - sounds like one word.
“I’m a…”
“I’m a student”.
Okay.
Please repeat after me.
“I’m a student”.
Okay, the next one, again, sounds like one word.
“He’s a…”.
Okay.so…
“He’s a student”.
Please repeat.
Same thing.
“She’s a student”.
Please repeat.
Okay.
The next sentence has ‘it’.
Now remember, ‘it’ is only used for a
place, a thing or an animal.
So we can’t have those things be a student.
So we have to say, “It’s a dog”.
Okay, please repeat.
“It’s a dog”.
Okay, the next one.
“You’re a student”.
Please repeat.
Okay.
Now let’s look at ‘we’re’.
“We’re students”.
Okay.
We took out the ‘a’ and we put an ‘s’
because ‘we’re’ means many people.
Not one student, but many students.
So, we have to say, “we’re students”.
Please repeat.
“We’re students”.
The same thing goes for ‘they’.
Again, ‘they’ means many people…or many things.
Here, we put ‘s’.
And we took out the ‘a’.
So, “they’re students”.
Please repeat.
“They’re students”.
Okay, we’re going to look at some more examples.
Please listen and repeat carefully.
Let’s start with the first one: “I’m”.
“I’m a boy”.
“I’m a girl”.
“He’s”.
“He’s a man”.
“He’s a boy”.
“She’s”.
“She’s a woman”.
“She’s a girl”.
“It’s”.
“It’s a chair”.
“It’s a cat”.
“You’re”.
“You’re a singer”.
“You’re a friend”.
“We’re”.
“We’re sisters”.
“We’re brothers”.
“They’re”.
“They’re people”.
“They’re cars”.
Well I hope that this video helped you understand
how to use subjective pronouns,
their ‘be’ verbs, and also contractions.
Now, before we go, I wanted to share a
little bit about myself using the lesson.
So, first, remember, “I’m a…”.
“I’m a girl”.
Also, “I’m a teacher”.
“I’m an American”.
Now, the word ‘American’
starts with the vowel ‘a’,
so we have to say ‘an’.
“I’m an American”.
And “I’m an animal lover”.
Again, same thing.
‘Animal’ starts with the vowel ‘a’,
so we have to put ‘an’.
“I’m an animal lover”.
And that means someone who loves animals.
I love dogs and cats and other animals.
So, “I’m an animal lover”.
Okay.
Well, that’s it and thank you for watching.
And I’ll see you guys next time.
Bye.
Hi, everybody.
In this video, we’re going to talk about
subjective pronouns,
‘be’ verbs,
and how to use them with the word ‘not’.
Okay. So, let’s look at the board to help us out.
Now the first sentence says, “I’m not
a student”.
‘Not’ means it’s not true.
No.
So remember, “I’m a student” means ‘yes’.
“I’m a student”.
I go to school, and I learn.
“I’m not a student” means ‘no’.
“I’m a teacher” or
“No, I’m not a student”.
Okay.
Now, notice, we first have the subjective
pronoun and the ‘be’ verb.
Then, we put ‘not’.
Okay.
‘Not’ comes after.
And then we have the noun.
Okay.
“I’m not a student”.
Now, also, listen carefully.
“Not a…” sounds like one word.
“I’m not a student”.
“Not a…”.
Okay, let’s look at the next one.
“He’s not a student”.
“She’s not a student”.
“It’s not a dog”.
Remember, ‘it’ is used for place, thing or animal.
So, “It’s not a dog”.
Okay.
“You’re not a student”.
Okay, the next one is a little bit different.
We have ‘we are’.
“We’re”.
Now, remember, ‘we’ means more than one.
Many.
Okay.
So we say “students”.
We put an ‘s’ and we don’t put an ‘a’ in front.
“We’re not students”.
Okay.
And ‘they’re’ is the same thing.
It means more than one.
So, “They’re not students”.
“They’re not students”.
Okay, we’re going to look at some more examples.
I want you to listen carefully and repeat
after the examples.
Let’s start with the first one.
“I’m not”.
“I’m not a boy”.
“I’m not a girl”.
“He’s not”.
“He’s not a man”.
“He’s not a boy”.
“She’s not”.
“She’s not a woman”.
“She’s not a girl”.
“It’s not”.
“It’s not a chair”.
“It’s not a cat”.
“You’re not”.
“You’re not a singer”
“You’re not a singer”.
“You’re not a friend”.
“We’re not”.
“We’re not sisters”.
“We’re not brothers”.
“They’re not”.
“They’re not people”.
“They’re not cars”.
Okay, so in this video, we learned how to
use subjective pronouns
with the ‘be’ verb
and how to use them with the word ‘not’. Okay.
So, I wrote some sentences about
myself using what we learned.
So remember, “I’m not a…”.
Okay.
“I’m not a boy”.
“I’m not a student”.
“I’m not a Canadian”.
And the last one.
“I’m not a loser”.
Okay.
So that was a little bit about me.
Thanks for watching and
I’ll see you guys next time.
Bye.
Hi, everybody.
In this video, I’m going to talk about how
to make questions using subjective pronouns
and ‘be’ verbs.
Okay.
So, let’s take a look at the board.
So, this example sentence says.
“I’m a student”.
Okay.
Remember, “I’m” is just a contraction for “I am”.
So, “I’m a student”.
“I am a student”.
They mean the same thing.
Now when we want to make a question,
we just have to make a simple
change. It’s very easy.
All you have to do is put
the ‘be’ verb in the front.
Okay.
So, “Am I a student?”.
“Am I a student?”.
The ‘be’ verb comes in the front.
Okay.
I also want you to listen to my intonation.
When I say it in a sentence, “I’m a student”.
“I’m a student”.
Okay, then when I say it in a question.
“Am I a student?”.
Notice my intonation goes up for the question.
Okay, now there are two possible answers for
this question.
“Am I a student?”.
The answers you can say are:
“Yes, I am”.
Okay.
And, “No, I’m not”.
“No, I’m not”.
Okay.
We’re going to look at some more examples.
Please make sure you repeat after each example.
Let’s look at the first one.
“Am I…?”.
“Am I a girl?”.
“Yes, I am”.
“Am I a boy?”.
“No, I’m not”.
“Am I a singer?”.
“Yes, I am”.
“Am I a friend?”.
“No, I’m not”.
Now, we’re going to talk about “he is”
and “she is” and how to use them in questions.
So let’s look at the sentence on the board.
“He’s a doctor”.
Or…
“She’s a doctor”.
Remember, “he’s” and “she’s” are
contractions for “he is” and “she is”.
The ‘be’ verb there is ‘is’.
So, when we make a question, we have to move
the ‘be’ verb to the front.
Okay.
So we put ‘is’ in the front.
“Is he a doctor?”.
“Is she a doctor?”.
Okay.
Very easy.
Just put the ‘be’ verb in the front.
Now I want you to listen to the intonation again.
“He’s a doctor”.
Okay.
The intonation is going down.
“Is he a doctor?”.
In the question, again, the intonation goes up.
Okay.
Now when you answer, they are several possible
answers you can give.
So…
“Yes, he is”.
Or…
“Yes, she is”.
Okay.
That’s easy.
When you come to know, this is where it gets
a little tricky, but you can do it.
“No, he isn’t”.
Okay, “isn’t” is a contraction for “is not”.
Okay.
“No, he isn’t”.
Or…
“No, she isn’t”.
Okay, so you can use “she isn’t”, “he isn’t”.
Another answer you can give is “No, he’s not”.
Or…
“No, she’s not”.
You already know this is a contraction for
‘he is’ and ‘she is’.
So, “No, he’s not”.
“No, she’s not”.
Okay.
So these are both common.
And they’re both ok to use.
Okay.
So, remember, we can give two
different answers for ‘no’.
Alright, now we’re going to
look at some more examples.
Please make sure you repeat after each example.
“Is he…?”, “Is she…?”.
“Is he a man?”
“Yes, he is”.
“Is he a cowboy?”.
“No, he isn’t.”
“Is she a woman?”
“Yes, she is”.
“Is she a cowgirl?”.
“No, she’s not.
Now, we’re going to move on to ‘it is’.
Okay.
And how to use that in a question.
So, let’s look at the board.
“It’s a dog”.
Okay, we have the contraction “it’s”.
Remember, “it’s” is a contraction for “it is”.
The ‘be’ verb is ‘is’.
When we make a question, remember, we have
to put the ‘be’ verb in the front.
“Is it a dog?”
Okay.
The intonation goes up for the question.
“Is it a dog?”
Okay.
Now, there are several answers you can give.
The first one is “Yes, it is”.
“Yes, it is”.
Okay.
When you say “no”, you can give two answers.
“No, it isn’t”.
Remember, “isn’t” is a contraction for “is not”.
Okay.
We can also say “No, it’s not”.
“No, it’s not”.
“It’s” is a contraction for “it is”.
Okay.
So again, remember, we have these two answers
for ‘no’, but they’re both common and
they’re both ok to use when you say “no”.
Okay.
We’re going to look at some more examples.
Please make sure you follow
and repeat after each one.
“Is it…?”.
“Is it a book?”.
“Yes, it is”.
“Is it a chair?”.
“No, it isn’t”.
“Is it a shoe?”.
“Yes, it is”.
“Is it a car?”.
“No, it’s not”.
Now, we’re going to move on to “you are”
and put that in a question.
Okay.
On the board the sentence says.
“You’re a boy”.
Remember, “you’re” is a contraction for “you are”.
The ‘be’ verb is ‘are’.
So we have to put that in
the front of the question.
“Are you a boy?”
Okay.
When we answer, it’s very simple.
We can say, “Yes, I am” or “No, I’m not”.
Okay.
We’re going to look at some more examples.
Please follow and repeat after each one.
“Are you…?”
“Are you a Korean?”
“Yes, I am.”
“Are you a clown?”
“No, I’m not.”
“Are you a nurse?”
“Yes, I am.”
“Are you a dancer?”
“No, I’m not.”
Now, let’s talk about “we are” and how
to use that in a question.
Okay.
So the sentence here says, “We’re teachers”.
“We’re” is a contraction from “we are”.
So the ‘be’ verb ‘are’ goes in the front.
“Are we teachers?”
Okay.
When we answer, we can say several things.
“Yes, we are.”
Or…
“No, we aren’t.”
Listen… “aren’t.”
“Aren’t” is a contraction for “are not”.
Or we can say, “No, we’re not”.
“No, we’re not”.
And you know “We’re” is a
contraction for “we are”.
Okay.
We’re going to look at some more examples.
Please repeat after each one.
“Are we…?”
“Are we boys?”
“Yes, we are.”
“Are we girls?”
“No, we aren’t.”
“Are we friends?”
“Yes, we are.”
“Are we pro-gamers?”
“No, we aren’t.”
Now, we’re moving on to ‘they are’ in a question.
The sentence on the board says, “They’re friends”.
Remember, ‘They’re’ is a
contraction for ‘they are’.
The ‘be’ verb ‘are’ goes in the front
of the question.
“Are they friends?”
Okay.
Now when we answer, we can say, “Yes, they are.”
“Yes, they are.”
Or, we can say, “No, they aren’t.”
“No, they aren’t.”
‘Aren’t’ is a contraction for ‘are not’.
The last thing we can say is “No, they’re not”.
“No, they’re not.”
‘They’re’ is a contraction for ‘they are’.
These two answers for ‘no’ are both correct.
And they’re both common.
So you can say either one.
Okay.
We’re going to look at some more examples now.
Please repeat after each example.
“Are they…?”
“Are they tourists?”
“Yes, they are.”
“Are they dogs?”
“No, they aren’t.”
“Are they computers?”
“Yes, they are.”
“Are they birds?”
“No, they’re not.”
Okay.
In this lesson, we learned how to change a
subjective pronoun and a
‘be’ verb into a question.
Remember, when you’re making a question,
you have to put the ‘b’ verb in the beginning.
Okay.
Alright, that’s the end of this video.
Thanks for watching.
Bye.
Okay, so this is a review video.
We learned about subjective
pronouns and ‘be’ verbs.
We also learned how to use them in a negative
sentence and in a question.
So, let’s look at the board for review.
“I am a teacher.”
Remember, ‘am’ is the ‘be’ verb.
Okay, we also learned contractions: “I’m”.
“I’m a teacher.”
Okay, this is a negative sentence.
“I’m not a teacher.”
Remember, ‘not’ goes after the ‘be’ verb.
Okay.
And here’s a question.
“Am I a teacher?”
Remember, the ‘be’ verb comes in the front
for a question.
Okay.
We’re going to listen to some more examples.
I want you to repeat after each one.
Okay.
Let’s look at some examples.
“He is a king.”
“He’s a king.”
“He’s not a king.”
“Is he a king?”
Next.
“She is a queen.”
“She’s a queen.”
“She’s not a queen.”
“Is she a queen?”
Next.
“It is a monkey.”
“It’s a monkey.”
“It’s not a monkey.”
“Is it a monkey?”
Next.
“You are a cook.”
“You’re a cook.”
“You’re not a cook.”
“Are you a cook?”
Next.
“We are friends.”
“We’re friends.”
“We’re not friends.”
“Are we friends?”
And last.
“They are monkeys.”
“They’re monkeys.”
“They’re not monkeys.”
“Are they monkeys?”
So that was our review of subjective pronouns,
‘be’ verbs,
how to use them with ‘not’,
and how to use them in questions.
I really hope that you repeated
each example that I gave
because pronunciation is very important.
Now, if you didn’t, you should go back and
watch it again and repeat.
Okay. Well that’s all. Thank you.
Bye.
This is a checkup for subjective pronouns
and ‘be’ verbs.
Let’s take a look at the board.
The first sentence.
“___, are bags.”
Now, bags are things.
So we can’t say “he” or “she” or,
you know, any of those.
We have to use “it” or “they”.
Now, we have “are….
bags”.
With an ‘s’.
So that means more than one.
We have to use ‘they’.
“They are bags.”
Okay.
The next sentence we have an animal.
“____ is a dog.”
Okay.
But just one.
Right?
’a’ dog.
So this time we use ‘it’.
“It is a dog.”
Now let’s look at these two.
“The girl is an artist.”
We have ‘the girl’.
What is the subjective pronoun for one girl?
“She.”
“She is an artist.”
These two sentences have the same meaning.
They’re the same.
Okay, and on the bottom, we have a question.
When we ask a question, we have to put the
‘be’ verb first.
“Are ___ pandas?”
With an ‘s’.
That means more than one.
So, we say, “they”.
“Are they pandas?”
“Yes, ____ are.”
Again plural.
So we just use the same.
“They.”
“Yes, they are.”
Okay, let’s move on to the next part.
Okay, now we’re going to focus on negatives
and questions.
Okay, the first sentence says,
“I’m a student”.
Okay, “I am…I’m a student”.
Okay.
What if I’m a teacher?
Okay, it’s not true.
I need ‘not’.
Right…
Remember, ‘not’ goes after the ‘be’
verb.
“I am…am not.”
And then the noun.
“…a student.”
“I’m not a student.”
Okay.
“They are teachers.”
And now we have some other people...
and that’s not true.
“They are not teachers.”
Again, after the ‘be’ verb ‘are’ and
before the noun ‘teachers’.
“They are not teachers.”
Okay.
Now, I’m going to ask you a question.
And you have to answer.
“Are you a student?”
Well, you’re taking my class,
you’re learning English.
So, “Yes, I am.”
Okay, you should say, “Yes, I am.”
But how about this one?
“Are you a monkey?”
Of course the answer is “No, I’m not”.
“No, I’m not”.
Okay, let’s move on to the last part.
Now for this last part, we’re going to look
at some sentences,
but there’s something wrong
in all of these sentences.
So you have to find the mistakes.
The first sentence says, “I’m student”.
Okay, look, “student”.
There’s no ‘s’.
That means just one.
Just one.
So remember, if there’s just
one, we have to put ‘a’.
“I’m a student.”
Let’s look at the next one.
“They are student”.
Okay.
This one says, “They are”.
This means there is more than one.
More than one student.
So, what do we have to do?
We have to say “They are….
students”.
We have to put an ‘s’ to show there’s
more than one student.
“She aren’t a baby.”
“She.”
That’s one person.
One girl or woman.
“…a baby.”
That’s one person.
But we put “aren’t”.
Now that’s wrong.
We have to say... ‘isn’t’.
“She isn’t a baby”.
“You isn’t a cat”.
Now, for the subjective pronoun ‘you’,
we have to have the ‘be’ verb ‘are’.
So not “You isn’t a cat”,
but “You aren’t... a cat”.
“You aren’t a cat.”
Okay.
“Are it a cat?”
“…a cat.”
That’s one animal.
So, do we need ‘are’?
No, we need the ‘be’ verb ‘is’.
“Is it a cat?”
Okay, so that was the checkup for subjective
pronouns and ‘be’ verbs.
I hope you guys understood and I’ll see
you in the next video.
Bye.
Hi, everybody.
In this video, we’re going to learn how to
make questions using ‘what’ and ‘be’ verbs.
Okay. Now when we have one thing,
we have to use the ‘be’ verb ‘is’.
“What is it?”
“It is a watch.”
It’s one thing, so I have to say ‘a’.
“a watch.”
I can also use the contraction for ‘it is’,
“it’s”.
Okay, now listen.
“It’s a ….”
“It’s a watch.”
“What is it?”
“It’s a marker.”
Okay.
Now, there are two highlighters.
Okay, two.
We use ‘are’.
“What are they?”
“They are highlighters.”
We have more than one, so we have to say “are”.
And we have to put an ‘s’ at the end.
Again, we can use a contraction for ‘they are’:
“they’re”.
“They’re highlighters.”
“What are they?”
“They’re markers.”
Okay.
We’re going to look at some examples
and I’m going to ask some questions.
We please try to answer them.
Listen carefully and answer with “It’s
a” or “They’re”.
Let’s look at the first one.
“What is it?”
“It’s a key.”
“What are they?”
“They’re keys.”
“What is it?”
“It’s a chair.”
“What are they?”
“They’re chairs.”
“What is it?”
“It’s a cat.”
“What are they?”
“They’re cats.”
“What is it?”
“It’s a house.”
“What are they?”
“They’re houses.”
Now let’s focus on pronunciation
and saying these fast.
Okay.
English speakers speak very quickly,
so you have to practice as well.
Okay.
“What is it?”
Okay, let’s try it faster three times.
It sounds like one word.
Okay, and the answer is also very fast.
“It’s a…”
“It’s a pencil.”
“It’s a chair.”
“It’s a marker.”
Okay.
When we have more than one,
we say, “What are they?”.
Let’s do it fast three times.
“What are they?”
Okay.
And when you answer.
“They’re…”
“They’re pencils”
“They’re chairs”
“They’re markers”
Okay, so this video was ‘what’ and ‘be’ verbs.
I hope you understood, and
I’ll see you in the next video.
Bye.
Hi, everybody, and welcome.
In this video, we’re going to talk about
‘this’ and ‘that’.
Now ‘this’ and ‘that’ are used to talk about nouns
that are close to us, near or far away.
Okay.
So let’s look at the board.
“This is a flower.”
Okay, we use ‘this’ to talk about
one noun, “a flower”, that is close.
Okay.
“This is a flower.”
It’s not far.
It’s close.
“That is a flower.”
Okay, we use ‘that’ to talk
about one noun that’s far away.
So, “That… that is a flower”.
Okay.
For another example…
“This is a marker.”
It’s close to me.
But “That… that is a marker”.
It’s far away.
Okay, let’s move on to the next part.
So we know…
“This is a flower.”
Okay.
And “That is a flower... that”.
Now, “Is this a flower”?
“What is it?”
“It’s a chair.”
So we have to use the negative.
“This isn’t a flower.”
It’s close by, but it isn’t a flower.
‘isn’t’ is a contraction for ‘is not’.
Okay.
“This isn’t a flower.”
“This is a chair.”
“That isn’t a flower.”
It’s far away, so we say “that”.
Again, we have ‘isn’t’, ‘a flower’.
“That’s a chair.”
And let’s take another example.
“This isn’t a pencil.”
“This is a marker.”
And…
“That isn’t a pencil.”
“That is a marker.”
Okay, let’s move on to the next part.
Now we’re going to learn how to use
‘this’ and ‘that’ in a question.
Okay.
So we know, “This is a flower”.
When we make a question, we have to switch.
We put the ‘be’ verb first.
So it becomes, “Is this a flower?”.
Okay, it’s close by.
So the answer is, “Yes, it is”.
Okay.
“Is that a flower?”
It’s far away.
The answer is, “Yes, it is”.
Okay, but how about this?
“This isn’t a flower.”
So...
“Is this a flower?”.
The answer is, “No, it isn’t”.
“Is that a flower?”
“No, it isn’t.”
Okay, here.
“Is this a marker?”.
“Yes, it is.”
“Is that a marker?”.
“Is this a pencil?”.
“No, it isn’t.”
“Is that a pencil?”.
Okay, so we learned ‘this’
and ‘that’ in this video.
I hope you guys understand and
I’ll see you in the next video.
Bye.
Hi, everybody and welcome to this video.
We’re going to talk about how
to use ‘these’ and ‘those’.
Okay.
Uhhh, just like we learned with ‘this’ and ‘that’,
we use ‘these’ and ‘those’ to talk
about nouns that are close to us
or far from us.
Okay.
So, let’s take a look at the board.
Now, we know if there is just one,
and it’s close to us,
we say, “This is a flower”.
Okay.
But there’s more than one.
It’s plural.
So we have to say, “These”.
“These are flowers.”
Again, more than one.
Now, I change the ‘be’ verb to ‘are’
and I added an ‘s’ at the end of ‘flower’.
So, “These are flowers.”
Okay.
Now, there’s one that’s far away.
We say, “That is a flower.”
But, again, there’s more than one.
There are two flowers.
So, in that case, we use, “Those are flowers.”
“Those are flowers.”
They’re far away.
Let’s look at these.
“This is a marker.”
“These are markers.”
“That is a marker.”
“Those are markers.”
Okay.
Let’s move on to the next part.
So we know “These are flowers”.
They’re close by.
And for the flowers that are far away, we say,
“Those are flowers”.
Okay.
But over here we have ‘chairs’.
So, we have to use the negative.
Okay.
We use the contraction ‘aren’t’
which is short for ‘are not’.
“These aren’t flowers.”
“These aren’t flowers.
Okay, and for the chairs that are far away,
we say, “Those aren’t flowers”.
“Those aren’t flowers.”
Okay, and let’s try with the markers.
“These aren’t pens.”
Okay, and far away.
“Those aren’t pens.”
Okay, let’s move on to the next part.
Okay, now we’re going to make some questions.
We know, “These are flowers”.
When you want to make a
question, you have to change
‘these are’ and put the ‘be’ verb first.
So, it becomes, “Are these flowers?”.
“Are these flowers?”
And the answer is “Yes, they are.”
Okay, now the flowers are far away.
So we say, “Are those flowers?”.
“Are those flowers?”
And again, the answer is “Yes, they are.”
Okay. Now here, we have chairs.
“Are these flowers?”
The answer is “No, they aren’t.”
Okay, now they’re far away.
“Are those flowers?”
And again, the answer is “No, they aren’t.”
How about these? “Are these markers?”
“Yes, they are.”
“Are those markers?”
“Are these pens?”
“No, they aren’t.”
“Are those pens?”
Okay, so in this video, we learned
how to use ‘these’ and ‘those’.
I hope you guys understand and I’ll see
you in the next video.
Bye.
Let’s do some practice with
‘this’, ‘that’,
‘these’, and ‘those’.
First, I have this pen.
I have to say, “This is a pen.”
“This is a pen.”
Okay.
Over there, “That is a pen.”
“That is a pen.”
Now, I have two pens.
“These are pens.”
Okay, I’m going to move them far away.
“Those are pens.”
Okay, let’s move on to questions.
I have one pen.
“Is this a pen?”
“Yes, it is.”
“Is this a cookie?”
“No, it isn’t.”
“Is that a pen?”
“Yes, it is.”
“Is that a cookie?”
“No, it isn’t.”
Okay, two pens.
“Are these pens?”
“Yes, they are.”
“Are these cookies?”
“No, they aren’t.”
Okay, now they’re over here.
“Are those pens?”
Yes, they are?”
“Are those cookies?”
“No, they aren’t.”
Okay, so that was our practice
for ‘this’, ‘that’, ‘these’, and ‘those’.
I hope you guys understood and
I’ll see you in the next video.
Bye.
Hi, everybody.
In this video, we’re going to
learn about possessive adjectives.
We use possessive adjectives to show that
something belongs to me,
or something belongs to someone else.
I own something or someone owns something.
Okay.
So let’s take a look at the board.
Now last time we learned about subjective pronouns
and here they are.
‘I’, ‘he’, ‘she’, ‘it’, ‘you’, ‘we’, ‘they’.
And here are the possessive adjectives.
Okay.
‘My’.
We use ‘my’ to show that something belongs to me.
Okay.
‘His’.
This means that something belongs to one man
or one boy.
‘Her’.
We use that to show something belongs to one
woman or one girl.
‘Its’.
We use ‘its’ to show that something belongs
to an animal.
We use ‘your’ to show that
something belongs to you.
Okay.
‘Our’.
‘Our’ means that something belongs to
me and you or me and somebody else.
Okay, or me and other people.
Okay, and last.
We use ‘their’ to show that something
belongs to many people.
Okay, not me, but many people.
Okay, now I want you to pay
attention to three special words.
‘Its’, ‘your’ and ‘their’.
Now I want you to notice these words sound
like other words.
So you have to be careful
not to get them confused.
And I’m going to explain.
‘Its’ sounds like the contraction for
‘it is’; ‘it’s’.
Okay, so, don’t get that confused.
‘Your’ sounds like the contraction for
‘you are’ ‘you’re’.
Okay.
So make sure you use this one to show possession.
And the last word, ‘their’, it actually
sounds like two other words.
The contraction for ‘they are’ ‘they’re’
or the word t-h-e-r-e, the
other word ‘there’. Okay.
So please don’t get those confused.
Now I know all of this sounds very hard,
but if you practice with me,
I’m sure you’ll understand.
So let’s move on to the next part.
Okay, let’s practice together.
Now, here I have a marker.
It belongs to me.
So, I have to say, “This is my marker.”
“This isn’t your marker.”
“This is my marker.”
Okay, let’s look at this boy.
He has a hat.
So, I have to say, “This is his hat.”
“This is his hat.”
“This isn’t my hat.”
“This isn’t your hat.”
Okay.
And this girl has a dress.
So, “This is her dress.”
“This is her dress.”
“This isn’t my dress.”
“This isn’t your dress.”
Okay, in this picture there’s an animal;
a dog…and it has a ball.
I have to say, “This is its ball.”
“This is its ball.”
“This isn’t my ball.”
and “This isn’t your ball.”
Now, in this picture, we have two people.
Okay, and they both own this house.
So, “This is their house.”
“This is their house.”
Okay, now a little bit farther away, we have
three books.
Okay.
And this boy and girl have the books here.
So, we have to say “those”.
And because we have more than one,
we have to use ‘are’.
Okay.
“Those are their books.”
“Those aren’t my books.”
“Those aren’t your books.”
Okay.
And the last one.
Here’s the county Korea.
Okay, we all live here.
So we say, “This is our country.”
“This is our country.”
Okay, let’s move on to the next
part for some more practice.
Here are some practice sentences.
We’re going to put possessive
adjectives on these lines.
Okay.
So, let’s try together.
“I put candy in ____ mouth.”
Okay, this is a mouth.
“I put candy in ……”
What should we put?
“my mouth.”
Okay, next.
“John.”
John is one man or boy.
“John lost ____ bag.”
Okay, for one man or boy, we say, “his”.
“John lost his bag.”
Okay, “The parents…”
That’s more than one person. That’s two people.
So, “The parents love ____ baby.”
We have to put…
“their”.
“The parents love their baby.”
Okay. And here, “The dog…”
Okay, ‘the dog’ is an animal.
So, “The dog eats ____ food.”
What do we put?
We have to say, “its”.
“The dog eats its food.”
Okay, let’s look at some more examples.
Let’s continue.
“_____ names are Paul and Sam.”
Okay, we have two people, Paul, and Sam.
And the plural names.
So we have to say, “Their”.
“Their names are Paul and Sam.”
Okay.
“Can I use ____ phone?”
Okay, I’m asking you.
So I have to say, “Can I use… your phone?”
Okay.
And the next one. “_____ make-up looks good.”
Whose make-up? Well, usually
girls or women wear make-up.
So, I’m going to say,
“Her make-up looks good.”
Okay, and…
“_____ videos are helpful to you.”
Okay, these are the videos that we make. Right?
We teach English in these videos.
So, the answer is “our”.
“Our videos are helpful to you.”
Or we sure hope they are.
Okay, so in this video, we learned
how to use possessive adjectives.
Don’t forget you have to
put a noun after each one.
I hope you understand, and I hope to see you
in the next video.
Bye.
Hi, everybody and welcome.
In this video, we’re going to learn about
possessive pronouns.
Okay.
And we use possessive pronouns to show that
something belongs to us
or something is owned by us.
Okay, or someone else.
So, let’s take a look at the board.
Now, last time we learned
about subjective pronouns.
And here they are.
Okay.
And in another video, we talked
about possessive adjectives.
And here they are.
Okay.
And over here are the possessive pronouns
that we’re going to talk about in this video.
Now, possessive adjectives and possessive
pronouns are the same.
They show possession.
Which means, I own something.
Something belongs to me…or to someone else.
Okay.
The only difference is that they’re used
a little differently.
For possessive adjectives, you have to put
a noun after.
Okay.
“My dog.”
But for possessive pronouns, you don’t have
to put a noun after it.
Okay, you can just say “mine”.
Okay.
So let’s go through each one.
“My"
"Mine”
Okay.
And this is the same.
“His"
"His”
Okay.
For ‘her’, we say “hers”.
We add an ‘s’.
“Hers”
“Its"
"Its”
Again, it’s the same.
“Your"
"Yours”
We have to put an ‘s’.
“Yours”
“Our"
"Ours”
and “Their"
"Theirs”
Okay, again, I know that this can be really
confusing, but let’s practice some more.
Okay.
And let’s move on to the next part.
Okay, let’s practice together.
Now, “This is my marker.”
But with possessive pronouns, you do not have
to put a noun after.
Okay, so I can say, “This is mine.”
“This isn’t yours.”
“This is mine.”
Okay, let’s look at the board.
This boy has a hat.
So we say, “This is his.”
“This isn’t mine.”
“This isn’t yours.”
“This is his.”
The girl has a dress.
“This is hers.”
“This isn’t mine.”
“This isn’t yours.”
“This is hers.”
Okay.
Now with ‘its’, it’s kind of different.
You still have to put a noun,
so you can’t say, “This is its.”
You have to say, “This is its ball.”
Again, “This is its ball.”
“This isn’t mine.”
“This isn’t yours.”
“This is its ball.”
Okay.
Now we have two people who have a house.
“This is theirs.”
“This isn’t mine.”
“This isn’t yours.”
“This is theirs.”
Okay.
Now over here, we have some books and we’re
going to say that they belong to these two people.
Okay.
So we’re going to use the plural ‘be’ verb; ‘are’.
“These are theirs.”
“These aren’t mine.”
“These aren’t yours.”
“These are theirs.”
Okay.
And last, we have a picture of Korea.
“This is ours.”
Okay, let’s move on to the next part.
Okay, let’s look at these examples.
We have to put in some possessive pronouns.
Okay.
“That lipstick is _____.”
Okay, well we have the noun ‘lipstick’
and usually a girl or woman wears lipstick,
so we’re going to use the possessive pronoun
‘hers’.
Okay.
“That lipstick is hers.”
The next sentence.
“That sports car is _____.”
Okay.
Again, usually a man will drive a sports car.
So, we can say, “That sports car is his.”
Okay.
Now, let’s look at these last two.
“This money is mine, not yours.”
“This money is mine; it belongs to me.”
“It doesn’t belong to you.”
Not yours.
Okay.
And the last one.
“Dokdo is ours.”
It’s Koreas.
Right…
“Not theirs.”
Not Japan’s.
“It belongs to us.”
So we say, “It’s ours.”
Okay, so in this video, we
learned possessive pronouns.
I hope you understand, and I’ll see you
in the next video.
Bye.
This is a checkup for ‘this’,
‘that’, ‘these’, ‘those’,
possessive adjectives, and possessive pronouns.
Okay.
Now here, I want you to focus on ‘this’,
‘that’, ‘these’, and ‘those’.
Okay, so here’s the first example.
We have a dog.
One dog.
So we have to use ‘this’ or ‘that’.
Okay.
If it’s close, I say, “This is a dog.”
If it’s far away, I say, “That is a dog.”
So, I’m going to write ‘this’.
Okay.
The next one says, “…are balloons.”
“…are balloons.” With an ‘s’.
There’s more than one.
So can we use ‘this’ or ‘that’?
No.
We have to use ‘these’ or ‘those’.
So, if it’s close, I say “These are balloons.”
If they are far, “Those are balloons.”
Okay.
So let’s write ‘those’.
“Those are balloons.”
Okay.
Now when we ask the question,
“Are these pens?”
we have more than one.
“These pens.” With an ‘s’.
Okay.
I can put two answers here.
“No, ___ aren’t.”
I can say “No, these aren’t.”
Or… I can say “No, they..."
more than one "... they aren’t.”
Okay.
The next one. “These ____ eyes.”
We need a ‘be’ verb.
Okay.
There’s more than one, right.
There are two eyes.
So, “These are eyes.”
Okay.
And here “…is a nose.”
One.
A nose.
And it’s close.
So, I have to say, “This is a nose.”
Okay, let’s move on to the next part.
We’re going to do some more checkup.
Now here, I want you to focus on possessive
adjectives and possessive pronouns.
Let’s look at the first example.
“These are my pen.”
Okay.
We have ‘these…are’.
This means we need more than one.
Right…
More than one pen.
So, we have to put ‘s’.
“These are my pens.”
Okay.
Let’s look at these two together.
“Those aren’t her children.”
Okay.
So we can also say, “Those aren’t ____.”
What do we put?
“… her children.”
We can always say, “Those aren’t hers.”
Okay.
We don’t need a noun here.
We do need a noun over here, though.
Okay.
Then, “Is it yours?”
“Is it yours?”
“Yes, it’s _____.”
There’s no noun.
We have to say…
“mine”.
“Is it yours?”
“Yes, it’s mine.”
Okay.
And the last two…
” _____ these his shoes?”
We need a ‘be’ verb here.
We have ‘these’, and we have ‘shoes’ with an ‘s’.
So we need the plural ‘be’ verb.
“Are”.
“Are these his shoes?”
Okay.
And the answer. “No, they…”
Plural.
“…are.”
We have ‘no’. “No, they aren’t”
Okay.
“Are not, aren’t”.
Let’s move on to the next part.
For this last part, we’re going to look
at these sentences.
But they’re all wrong.
They all have mistakes.
So you have to find the mistakes for me.
Okay.
So, the first one says, “That are chairs.”
Hmmmm, we know that’s wrong.
‘That’ is used for singular nouns.
One.
But it says “are” and it says “chairs”
with an ‘s’.
So, we have to change this word.
We can say, “These are chairs.”
or “Those are chairs.”
Okay.
“This book is my.”
Hmm.
We have the possessive pronoun ‘my’.
But remember, you have to have a noun after,
but there’s no noun.
So, we can change this to the
possessive adjective ‘mine’.
Okay.
You don’t need a noun if you say ‘mine’.
“That is he house.”
Hmm.
We want to show that this house belongs to
this man or boy.
“That is he house.”
But this word ‘he’, does not show possession.
Okay.
So, we say, “This is his house.”
‘His’, then the noun ‘house’.
Similarly, for the next one.
“She name is Jenny.”
We want to show that this name belongs to Jenny.
So, we say…
“her”.
“Her name is Jenny.”
Okay, and the last one is also similar.
“It’s ours house.”
Now, if we don’t have ‘house’, “It’s ours.”
We can say that.
But since we have a noun, …
we use the possessive pronoun,
“It’s ‘our’ house.”
Okay.
That was the checkup for possessive
pronouns, possessive adjectives,
‘this’, ‘that’, ‘these’, and ‘those’.
I hope you understood, and I’ll see you
in the next video.
Bye.
Hi, everybody.
In this video, we’re going to talk about
the articles; ‘a’, ‘an’ and ‘the’.
Now this can be very confusing, so please
make sure you pay careful attention.
We use articles in front of nouns.
Okay, so remember that and
let’s look at the board.
First, we use ‘a’ or ‘an’ when we’re
talking about any one thing.
For example, let’s say I
say, “A banana is delicious.”
Okay, that means all bananas.
Any banana is delicious.
“A banana is delicious.”
Okay, let’s jump over here.
If I’m talking about a specific banana…
maybe I have a banana in my hand.
It’s specific, not any banana, this one.
I have to use ‘the’,
“The banana is old.”
Okay. This one.
I can’t say, “A banana is old.”
Then that means all bananas are old.
And that’s not true. Just this one.
So, I say, “The banana is old.”
Okay, let’s move over here.
We also use ‘a’ or ‘an’ when we’re
talking about something for the first time.
So, I have another example here.
“I watched a movie.”
Okay.
I’m talking about this movie for the first
time, so I have to use “…a movie”.
But, if I want to talk about this movie again,
for the second time, or the
third time or fourth, fifth…
it doesn’t matter.
I have to use ‘the’.
“The movie was fun.”
I’m talking about this one. The specific.
I can’t say, “A movie was fun.”
That means all movies are fun.
That’s not true.
“The movie was fun.”
Okay, and I also use ‘the’
when I’m talking about a noun
where there’s only one and only.
Okay.
For example, there’s only one sun.
Okay, when I look at the
sky, there’s only one sun.
So, I say, “The sun.”
“The sun is hot.”
I cannot say, “A sun.”
That’s wrong.
When there’s one and only, we say, “The sun.”
Okay.
Let’s look at some more examples.
The first example says, “A lion is dangerous.”
I have to use ‘a’ because I’m
talking about any one lion.
Any lion is dangerous.
All lions are dangerous.
So, I use ‘a’.
The next sentence says, “It’s a dog.”
I’m talking about this dog for the first time,
so I use ‘a’.
Now, I’m talking about this
dog for the second time.
So, I say, “The dog is cute.”
Okay.
Here’s a similar example.
“It’s an ant.”
Well, I used ‘an’ because we have ‘ant’,
which start with a vowel.
And I’m talking about this ant for the first
time.
“It’s an ant.”
Now, I’m talking about this ant again.
“The ant is small.”
“The ant…”, this one, “…is small.”
Okay, and the last one.
“It’s the moon.”
I have to say, “the moon”
because there’s only one moon.
I cannot say, “a moon”.
“It’s the moon.
The moon…”, only one, “…is round.”
Okay.
Let’s look at some more examples.
Okay, we have some more examples,
but this time I want you to think about
whether we should put ‘a’, ‘an’ or ‘the’.
Okay.
So, “I see ____ desk and ___ chair.”
We don’t know which desk and chair.
And it’s the first time I’m talking about them.
So, we have to put ‘a’.
“I see a desk and a chair.”
The next one.
“I see ____ octopus.”
Okay, this is the same.
It’s the first time I’m
talking about this octopus.
So, do I put ‘a’ or ‘an’?
Well here we have the vowel ‘o’.
So we have to put “‘an’ octopus”.
“I see an octopus.”
Okay, the next one.
“It’s ___ pen.”
Okay, it’s the same.
It’s the first time, so I say, “a pen”.
Now, I’m talking about the
pen for the second time.
So I say, “The pen is red.”
Okay, I’m talking about this one.
So I say, “the”.
Okay, similarly…
“She is ____ girl.”
What do I say?
“a girl.”
We’re talking about her for the first time.
Okay.
And now we’re talking about this girl again,
for the second time.
So, I have to say, “The girl is pretty.”
And the last example.
“I can see ___ sky.”
Now, we only have one sky.
Right…
So, if there’s only one and only, we have
to put the article ‘the’.
“I can see the sky.”
Okay.
So in this video, we talked about the articles
‘a’, ‘an’ and ‘the’.
I hope you understand, and
I’ll see you in the next video.
Bye.
Hi, everybody.
In this video, we’re going to talk about
the prepositions: in, on and under.
Now, we use prepositions to
show ‘where’ something is.
So, let’s take a look at the board.
Okay, now in this picture, we have a cat.
Okay, and we’re talking about this specific
cat, so we have to say, “the cat”.
Okay.
“…is in the box.”
The preposition is ‘in’.
“He’s ‘in’ the box.”
“…’in’ the box.”
Okay.
And the next one.
“The cat is on…”
The preposition ‘on’… “the chair”.
“He’s on the chair.”
Okay.
And the next one.
“The cat is ‘under’…
’under’ the table.”
“…’under’ the table.”
Okay.
Let’s look at the next one.
Now we have plural nouns.
“The apples ‘are’…”
Okay.
“…in the box.”
Again, the apples are “…’in’ the box.”
Okay.
Next, “The apples are ‘on’ the chair.”
And last.
“The apples are ‘under’….’under’ the table.”
Okay, let’s look at some more examples.
Okay, let’s look at some pictures to help
us understand the prepositions:
in, on, and under.
I’m going to ask you some questions.
I want you to think about
which one you should use.
Okay.
“Where is the dog?”
“The dog is ‘in’ the doghouse.
You should use the preposition ‘in’.
“Where is the man?”
“The man is ‘under’ the umbrella.”
And last.
“Where are the girls?”
“The girls are ‘on’ the bridge.”
Okay.
Let’s look at some more examples.
Now, we’re going to practice asking and
answering questions using: in, on and under.
First, let’s take a look at this picture.
Here we have a rabbit, a chair
and one, two, three snakes.
Okay.
So, I will ask a question using in, on or under.
I want you to think.
Is the answer, “Yes, it is.”
or “No, it isn’t.”
Okay.
Let’s start with the rabbit.
“Is the rabbit under the chair?”
“No, it isn’t.”
“Is the rabbit in the chair?”
“Is the rabbit on the chair?”
“…on the chair?”
“Yes, it is.”
Okay.
Now, we’re going to move on to the snakes.
Now, there are…there are more than one,
right, so it’s plural, so we say,
“Are the snakes…” with an ‘s’.
Okay.
So again, think.
Is the answer, “Yes, they are.”
or “No, they aren’t.”
“Are the snakes in the chair?”
“No, they aren’t.”
“Are the snakes on the chair?”
“Are the snakes under the chair?”
“Yes, they are.”
Okay, how did you do?
I hope you guys understand how to use the
prepositions; in, on and under
after watching this video.
Thanks for joining and I’ll see you next time.
Bye.
Hi, everybody.
In this video, we’re going
to talk about adjectives.
Now, we use adjectives to
describe nouns or things.
Okay, we can describe its size, its color,
its shape or other things like that.
Okay.
So let’s take a look at the board.
The first noun we’re going to use is ‘marker’.
“It’s a marker.”
Now, I want to use an adjective
to describe the color.
I'm going to say, “It’s a ‘black’ marker.”
‘Black’ is the adjective.
Now notice, I have to put the adjective after
the article ‘a’, but before the noun ‘marker’.
“It’s a black marker.”
Now, I can use another
adjective to describe its size.
“It’s a long marker.”
Okay.
Let’s try the next one.
Here we have a bird.
So, “It’s a bird.”
Okay.
I want to use another adjective
to describe the color.
So, I’m going to say, “It’s a blue bird.”
Again, you have to put the adjective after
the article, before the noun.
I can also describe its size.
“It’s a small bird.”
‘Small’ is another adjective.
Now, at the last part, we have some apples.
Three apples.
Okay, remember, when we have more than one
noun, it’s called a plural noun.
So, we have to say, “They’re apples.”,
with an ‘s’.
“They’re apples.”
I want to use the adjective ‘red’ to describe
the color of these apples.
So, I’m going to say, “They’re red apples.”
Okay.
Here, there’s no article.
There’s no ‘a’.
That’s because there’s more than one.
“They’re red apples.”
So, I just have to put the adjective before
the noun that it’s describing.
“They’re red apples.”
Okay, let’s move on to some more examples.
Okay. Now we’re going to
practice asking and answering
questions using adjectives.
Okay.
So, we have a man here.
I want to ask, “Is he a small man?”
Okay.
We have the adjective ‘small’.
Notice, even in a question,
we have to put the adjective after
the article and before the noun.
“Is he a small man?”
Well, let’s take a look at this picture.
The answer is, “No, he’s a _____ man.”
We need another adjective.
He’s not a small man.
So, we have to say “No, he’s a…
big man.”
Okay.
We’re going to use the adjective ‘big’.
Okay, let’s look at the next one.
“Is it a _____ table?”
The answer is “Yes, it is.”
We need an adjective to describe color, shape
or size or something.
Well, we can’t really describe the color.
So, I think we should try the shape.
Okay.
Well, “Is it a….
round table?”
And the answer is “Yes, it is.”
Okay, and last, we have two dresses.
Okay. So that means the noun is plural.
In that case, for the
questions, we begin with ‘are’.
“Are they red dresses?”
Okay, the adjective is ‘red’.
But, “Are they red dresses?”
“No, they’re…
blue dresses.”
Okay.
“No, they’re…blue dresses.”
So, in this video, we learned about adjectives.
I hope you guys understand.
And I’ll see you in the next video.
Bye.
This is a check-up video for articles,
prepositions, and adjectives.
I’ve written some sentences on the board.
Let’s try to finish them together.
Okay.
The first sentence says, “It’s __ ___umbrella.”
We have the noun.
We need an article and an
adjective to describe the umbrella.
Okay.
So here it is.
Let’s describe the color.
Okay.
We would say ‘black’.
Remember, the adjective comes before the noun.
Now we need an article.
And the correct article is ‘a’.
“It’s a black umbrella.”
Okay.
Next, “It’s ___ ___ ___.”
We have three blanks.
Here, we have the noun ‘ant’.
So, we’re going to put that at the end.
Okay.
Let’s use the adjective ugly.
Remember, again, the adjective
comes before the noun.
“…ugly ant.”
“It’s __ ugly ant.”
We need an article.
Should we use ‘a’ or ‘an’?
Well, ‘ugly’ starts with the vowel ‘u’,
so we have to say ‘an’.
“It’s an ugly ant.”
Next.
“It’s __ __ __.”
Okay.
We have the noun ‘car’.
So, we put that at the end.
Again, let’s use an adjective
that describes the color.
Let’s use ‘blue’.
Okay.
What article should we use?
We have to say “a”.
“It’s a blue car.”
Okay, and last.
“I __ ___ nice girl.”
That’s me.
We have the noun ‘girl’…and the adjective ‘nice’.
So, we need the article.
We’re going to say “a”.
Now, we’re missing one more thing.
We need the ‘be’ verb ‘am’.
“I am a nice girl.”
Okay, let’s move on to the next part.
Okay, let’s continue with the checkup.
Here’s a picture.
Okay.
Look at it carefully.
“What is it?”
“It’s __ banana.”
We need an article here.
And it’s the first time I’m talking about
this, so we’re going to say “a”.
“It’s a banana.”
“Where is ___ banana?”
Now, you know, I’m talking about this one.
It’s specific.
So, I’m going to use the article ‘the’.
“Where is the banana?”
Okay. And now, let’s think about the preposition.
“It’s __ the chair.”
We need to use the preposition ‘on’.
“It’s on the chair.”
Okay.
Let’s move on.
“What are they?”
Okay.
“They’re ____ oranges.”
We have more than one.
That’s why we said, “They are…they’re”
and “oranges” …with an ‘s’.
Okay.
Can we use ‘the’?
No, you don’t know what oranges I’m talking
about because it’s the first time I said
anything about them.
Then, can I use ‘a’ or ‘an’?
No, ‘a’ or ‘an’ is used for any one thing.
So here we do not need any article.
“They’re oranges.”
“What are they?”
Okay.
“Where __ __ oranges?”
Now, again, you know I’m talking about these
specific oranges, so we use ‘the’.
“Where __ the oranges?”
Okay, remember, when you ask a question with
plural, you need ‘are’.
“Where are the oranges?”
Okay.
Now, let’s think about the preposition.
“They’re ___ the chair.”
Okay.
The preposition we need is ‘under’.
They’re not ‘on’, “they’re ‘under’ the chair.”
Okay, let’s move on to the last part.
Okay, let’s continue with the checkup.
Now, we have two short stories here.
You have to help me find the mistakes.
The first sentence says, “It’s snake.”
Well, we’re missing an article.
Okay.
And that article is ‘a’.
“It’s a snake.”
Okay.
“It’s blue a snake.”
Can you find the mistake?
Okay.
Remember, the adjective ‘blue’ has to
go between the article and the noun.
So, we have to move the article to the front.
“It’s a blue snake.”
That is the correct answer.
Okay, the next one.
“The snake under the box.”
It sounds right.
“The snake under the box.”,
but we forgot the ‘be’ verb.
“The snake is under the box.”
Okay, let’s move on to the next story.
“It’s a octopus.”
Okay, we have an article, but octopus starts
with the vowel ‘o’.
So, we have to use ‘an’.
“It’s an octopus.”
“An octopus is big.”
Hmmm…
This one’s a little bit hard.
But remember, we’re talking about the same
octopus.
So now, this octopus is specific.
So, we have to change the article ‘an’ to ‘the’.
“The octopus is big.”
The octopus from the first sentence.
Last, “The octopus are under the chair.”
What’s the mistake?
“The octopus…”
There’s only one.
So, we don’t use ‘are’, we have to say
“is”.
“The octopus is under the chair.”
Okay.
So that was our checkup for articles,
prepositions and adjectives.
I hope you guys understand better and I’ll
see you in the next video.
Thank you.
Bye.
Hi, everybody.
In this video, we’re going
to learn ‘have’ and ‘has’.
Now we use ‘have’ or ‘has’ to show possession.
To show something belongs to you.
Okay.
So, let’s take a look at the board.
When you’re talking about ‘you’, or
me, we say, “I have…”
Okay.
If something belongs to a boy or man, we say,
“He has…”
For a girl or a woman.
“She has…”
For an animal or thing.
“It has…”
For you, “You have…”
For us.
Me and some other people.
We say, “We have…”
Okay, and some other people.
“They have…”
Okay.
This is very easy, you just have to remember it.
So, let’s practice with these pictures.
Here we have a rabbit…
and a carrot.
So, which one do we have to use?
Well, a rabbit is an animal.
So, we have to use ‘it’.
“It has a carrot.”
Again, “It has a carrot.”
Now, in this picture, we have two ants.
Okay.
So, for two things we have to use ‘they’.
So, here are two ants and an apple.
So, we’re going to say, “They have an apple.”
“They have an apple.”
Okay, let’s move on to some more practice.
Let’s do some practice together.
You have to think about if we should use ‘have’
or ‘has’ in the blanks.
Okay.
So, let’s look at the first one.
“The girl ‘blank’ long hair.”
Okay.
Now, ‘the girl’.
We can we use instead of the girl?
We can say “she”.
“She” then what do we say?
“Has.”
“She has long hair.”
Or…
“The girl has long hair.”
It’s the same.
Okay.
The next one.
“The boys…”
Now, there’s an ‘s’ here.
That means there’s more than one boy.
When we have more than one thing, what do we use?
“They.”
Okay.
“They…”
Do we say ‘have’ or ‘has’?
We have to say “have”.
“They have caps.”
Or…
“The boys have caps.”
Okay, the next one’s easier.
“I…”
When we have ‘I’, we say “have”.
“I have a friend.”
Okay, the next one is also easy.
“He…”
“He ‘blank’ an umbrella.”
What do we have to use?
“Has.”
“He has an umbrella.”
Okay, the next one says, “The dog ‘blank’ a bone.”
“The dog…”
What do we use for animals?
“It.”
“It…
has a bone.”
Or… “The dog has a bone.”
And last.
“My mother and I ‘blank’ a car.”
Okay, this one’s tricky.
“My mother and I…”
We have to say “we”.
“We…have…a car.”
“My mother and I have a car.”
Okay.
So, I hope you understand how to use ‘have’
and ‘has’.
And I’ll see you in the next video.
Bye.
Hi, everybody.
In this video, we’re going to learn negatives
with ‘have’ and ‘has’.
Now this also pretty easy.
You just have to remember everything that I wrote.
Okay.
So, let’s take a look at the board.
Okay, first, for ‘I’, we use, “I don’t have…”
Remember, ‘don’t’ is a contraction for ‘do not’.
“I don’t have…”
For ‘he, ‘she’ and ‘it’, we use ‘doesn’t have’.
‘Doesn’t’ is a contraction for ‘does
not’.
“He doesn’t have…”
“She doesn’t have…”
“It doesn’t have…”
Now on the bottom.
For ‘you’, ‘we’, ‘they’, it’s
the same as ‘I’.
We use ‘don’t have’.
“You don’t have…”
“We don’t have…”
and “They don’t have…”
So, let’s look at these pictures.
Remember, we have a rabbit and a carrot.
So, we said, “It has a carrot.”
Okay, but, we’re doing
negatives, so we have to say,
“It doesn’t have a cake.”
Okay.
Now here, we have the ants and an apple.
So, we said, “They have an apple.”
Okay.
But for this banana here, we have to say,
“They don’t have a banana.”
Okay, let’s move on to some more practice.
Now let’s try this practice with the negatives
‘doesn’t have’ and ‘don’t have’ together.
Now this is a little easy because we know
that the second word is have.
All you have to think is should
we use ‘doesn’t’ or ‘don’t’.
Okay.
So, I’m just going to put ‘have’ her first.
“She ‘blank’ have short hair.”
Should we use ‘don’t’ or ‘doesn’t’?
If you remember, for ‘she’, we use ‘doesn’t’.
“She doesn’t have short hair.”
Okay.
And again, I’m going to put ‘have’ first.
This is easy.
‘He’ and ‘she’ we both use ‘doesn’t’.
“He doesn’t have an umbrella.”
Okay.
How about for ‘I’?
“I doesn’t have….”
Or
“I don’t have…”?
The correct answer is ‘don’t’.
“I don’t have a wife.”
“People…”
Remember, if we have more than one person,
animal and thing, we have to think of ‘they’.
For ‘they’, do we use
‘don’t’ or ‘doesn’t’?
Do you remember?
The correct answer is ‘don’t’.
“People don’t have manners.”
Okay.
Next.
“We…”
“We ‘blank’ have money.”
Should we put ‘doesn’t’ or ‘don’t’?
The correct answer is ‘don’t’.
“We don’t have money.”
Okay, and the last one.
“A snake…”
A snake is an animal.
What do we use for an animal?
“It.”
“It…”
What should we put here?
“It…doesn’t…have legs.”
Okay, so that was our practice the negatives
‘don’t have’ and ‘doesn’t have’.
I hope you understand, and I’ll see you
in the next video.
Bye.
Hi, everybody.
In this video, we’re going to learn how
to ask questions using ‘have’.
Okay, let’s look at the board.
When we are talking about ‘he’, ‘she’ or ‘it’,
the question always begins with ‘does’.
After the pronoun, we have ‘have’.
So, we say, “Does he have…”
“Does she have…”
“Does it have…”
Now, let’s practice with this question and
let’s look at the two answers.
Okay.
“Does he have a friend?”
If the answer is ‘yes’, we say “yes”,
in the blank, we match… this has to be the same.
“Yes, he does.”
If the answer is ‘no’.
“No, he doesn’t.”
“Does he have a friend?”
“Yes, she does.”
“No, she doesn’t.”
“Does it have a friend?”
“Yes, it does.”
“No, it doesn’t.”
Okay, so remember ‘does…have’.
Now, when we use ‘you’, ‘we’, ‘they’,
we use ‘do’ in the front.
And ‘have’ after.
“Do you have a friend?”
“Do we have a friend?”
“Do they have a friend?”
Okay.
And again, we have two answers.
We finish with ‘do’ or ‘don’t’.
So, “Do you have a friend?”
“Yes, I do.”
Right, the question is asking ‘you’,
so, you say “I do.”
Or, “No, I don’t.”
“Do we have a friend?”
“Yes, we do.”
Or, “No, we don’t.”
And last.
“Do they have a friend?”
“Yes, they do.”
“No, they don’t.”
Okay, let’s move on to some more practice.
Alright, let’s try this practice together.
I know it looks hard, but I’m going to help you.
Okay.
So let’s look at the first practice.
It’s a question.
Okay, so remember when we ask a question,
we begin with ‘do’ or ‘does’.
Okay.
We have ‘she’.
Well, remember for all questions we use ‘have’.
In the front, should we use ‘does’ or ‘do’?
The answer is ‘does’.
“Does she have a dress?”
When we answer, “Yes…”
What do we put here?
Remember, we put the pronoun ‘she’.
And the answer ‘does’.
“Yes, she does.”
The next one.
We have ‘they’.
Okay, ‘have’ is again the same.
“…have a bicycle?”
Okay, what goes in the front?
For ‘they’, we use ‘do’.
“Do they have a bicycle?”
This time the answer is negative.
“No, they….”
What do we put here?
It doesn’t make sense to say, “do”.
Right?
“No, they do.”
That’s wrong.
It’s a negative.
We have to say, “No, they don’t.”
“No, they do not.”
Okay, and again, we have ‘have’ over here.
“It…”
Which one, ‘do’ or ‘does’?
The answer is ‘does’.
“Does it have a ball?”
Again, the answer is negative.
“No, it…does not.”
or the contraction, “No, it doesn’t.”
Okay.
So that was our practice for asking questions
with ‘have’.
I hope you understand and I’ll
see you in the next video.
This is a checkup video for 'have', 'has',
'don't have', 'doesn't have'
and questions with 'have'.
Let's take a look at the board.
Here, we have a picture of a dog and a ball.
And this ball belongs to this dog.
So let's make a sentence about this picture.
Ok...
The dog is an animal.
So, we have to use 'it'.
Ok...
With 'it', do we use 'have' or 'has'?
We have to use 'has'.
"It has a ball."
Now, there's a hat, but it says "no".
It's negative.
So, "It..."
Remember, for negative, we always use 'have'.
But what goes in the front?
'Doesn't' or 'don't'?
For 'it', we say "doesn't".
"It doesn't have a hat."
Next, we have a question.
We use 'have'.
Remember, we have to put the pronoun over here.
The same one.
And we put 'does' or 'do' in the front.
What do you think?
We have to say, "does".
"Does it have a ball?"
Well, "Does it have a ball?"
"Yes, it does."
Let's move on to the next part.
Here we have two people.
So, we're going to say "they".
And a car...that belongs to them.
For 'they', we have to say "have".
"They have a car."
Here, there's a bus.
But, again, it says, "no".
Negative.
"They 'blank' 'blank' a bus."
Again, for negative, we say "have".
'Doesn't have' or 'don't have'?
Which one is it?
For 'don't'...uhh for 'they', we say,
"They don't have a bus."
Ok, and we have a question.
Well, again, we have to put the same pronoun.
How about in the front?
'Do' or 'does'?
For 'they', we put 'do'.
"Do they have a bus?"
"No, they don't."
Ok, let's move on to some more practice.
Ok, now for this practice, we have to find
the mistakes in these sentences.
What's wrong with them?
Ok...
So, let's look at the first one.
"They has two watches."
Hmmmm.
Remember, for 'they', we have
to use 'have', not 'has'.
"They have two watches."
The next one is a question.
"Does they have three watches?"
Ok...
Remember, when we start a question, we have
to use 'do' or 'does'.
Here we have 'does'.
But remember, for 'they', we begin with 'do'.
"Do they have three watches?"
And in the answer...
"No, we don't."
What's wrong with this answer?
Remember, the pronoun has to match.
It has to be the same.
"Do they have three watches?"
"No, they don't."
Let's look at these.
"She have a dress."
Remember, for 'she', we use 'has'.
"She has a dress."
How about in the question?
"Do she have a hat?"
Remember, we begin with 'do' or 'does', but
for 'she', we should begin with 'does'.
"Does she have a hat?"
And the answer.
"No, she do."
Hmmm.
'No' means it's negative.
So, we need a negative here.
Is it 'don't' or 'doesn't'?
"No, she..
doesn't." is the correct answer.
Okay.
So that was our checkup.
I hope you understand better.
And I'll see you in the next video.
Hi, everybody.
I’m Esther.
Welcome to
my English grammar course on the tenses.
I’m going to teach you how to use the twelve
tenses in the past, present, and future.
It’s a great course, and there’s a lot of
important information.
So keep watching.
Hi, everybody.
My name is Esther.
I'm so excited to teach you the present simple
tense in today's video.
Now this lesson can be a little difficult,
so I'll do my best to keep it easy and fun
for you.
My goal is for you to understand how and when
to use this grammar by the end of the video.
Let's get started.
Let's start with the first usage for the present
simple tense.
The first usage is pretty easy.
We use it to talk about facts, truths, and
generalizations.
Let's look at some examples.
‘The Sun is bright.’
Now that's a fact.
It doesn't change.
Everybody knows that the Sun is bright.
It was bright yesterday.
It's bright today.
And it will be bright tomorrow.
That makes it a fact.
‘Pigs don't fly.’
That's also a fact.
Everybody knows that pigs don't fly.
‘Cats are better than dogs.’
Now this you may not agree with.
This is my truth.
I'm making a generalization about cats and
dogs in this example.
And finally, ‘It's cold in winter.’
This really depends on where you live,
but for a lot of people, or let's say for
most people,
it is cold in the winter,
so that's the truth for some people.
Now let's look back and see what verb I used
in the present simple tense.
For the first sentence, we have ‘is’.
I use the ‘be’ verb ‘is’ to talk about
the Sun.
In the next sentence,
I use the negative of do - ‘do not’
And you'll notice I use the contraction and
put these two words together to make it ‘don't’.
‘Cats are better than dogs.’
I use the ‘be’ verb "are" to talk about
cats because ‘cats’ is plural.
And finally, it's cold and winter.
Here I use the ‘be’ verb "is" again,
but I use the contraction to combine ‘it’
and ‘is’
and made ‘it’s’.
Let's move on to the next usage.
We also use the present simple tense to talk
about habits and routines.
So things and actions that happen regularly.
Let’s look at the examples.
‘I always eat lunch at noon.’
You'll notice I use the adverb ‘always’
because I'm talking about something that I
do regularly.
What is that?
‘Eat lunch at noon.’
So I use the present simple tense.
And here I use the verb ‘eat’.
‘I eat…’
The second example says you play games every
day.
Do you see the clue that helps you know that
this is something that happens regularly?
It's ‘every day’.
So it's something that happens as a routine
or a habit,
so you play games.
The verb here is ‘play’.
‘You play…’
The next example says ‘Seth starts work
at 9:00 a.m. daily.’
Again this is something that happens regularly.
‘Seth goes to work at 9:00 a.m.’ every
day.
Now you'll notice I put a blue line under
the ‘s’ in ‘starts’.
Can you figure out why?
Well remember that when the subject of a sentence
is ‘he’, ‘she’, or ‘it’,
we need to add an ‘s’ or ‘es’ to the
end of the verb in the present simple tense.
Seth is a ‘he’, so we need to add an ‘s’.
‘Seth starts work at 9:00 a.m. daily.’
And the last example:
‘They study English every Monday.’
Again, ‘every Monday’ means that they
do it regularly,
and that's why we use the present simple tense.
‘They study…’.
So as a review,
remember we use the present simple tense
to talk about habits and routines that happen
regularly.
Let's move on.
We also use the present simple tense with
non-continuous verbs.
These are verbs that we
don't use in the continuous
form,
even if they're happening right now.
They're also called stative verbs.
These are connected with thoughts, opinions,
feelings, emotions, and our five senses.
Let's look at these examples.
‘I love my mom.’
The verb here is ‘love’.
That's an emotion, so I use the present simple
tense.
‘It smells good.’
‘Smell’ is one of the five senses, so
I use the present simple tense.
You'll notice I underlined the ‘s’ because
remember the subject is ‘it’.
‘Kelly feels happy.’
This is talking about a feeling.
Again the subject here is ‘Kelly’ which
is a ‘she’,
so I added an ‘s’ to the verb.
And finally, ‘They need help.’
We don't say, ‘they are needing help’
even though it's happening right now.
‘Need’ is non-continuous, so we say,
‘they need help’,
so remember you also use the present simple
tense with non-continuous verbs,
connected with thoughts, opinions, feelings,
emotions, and our five senses.
Let's move on.
Speakers occasionally use the present simple
tense to talk about something that will happen
in the near future.
Now this can be a little confusing, but we're
not using the future tense,
we're using the present simple tense.
It's possible to do that and it's actually
common for people to do that.
Again, for something that will happen in the
near future.
Let's look at the examples.
‘I have class at 6 p.m.’
‘6 p.m.’ that's pretty soon, so I can
say,
'I have class.'
- the present simple tense.
‘Lisa arrives on Sunday.’
Again the near future, ‘Sunday’.
So I use the present simple tense.
I added an ‘s’ at the end of arrive, because
Lisa, the subject, is a ‘she’.
‘We start work soon.’
Again, the near future, ‘soon’,
so I use the present simple verb ‘start’.
And finally, ‘My students come tomorrow.’
This is something that will happen in the
near future,
so I use the verb ‘come’.
So remember it is possible, and it is common
to use the present simple tense
to talk about something that will happen in
the near future.
Let's go to the next usage.
Let's talk about a possible negative usage
for the present simple tense,
and that is ‘do not’ and ‘does not’.
The first example says,
‘Mike eats bread.’
I put an ‘s’ at the end of ‘eat’ because
the subject is Mike which is a ‘he’.
Now that's not a negative statement.
What happens when I want to turn it into a
negative statement?
Well I change it like this -
‘Mike doesn't eat bread.’
So you'll notice that I didn't move the ‘s’
here, okay.
Instead I added ‘doesn't’.
I took ‘does’ and ‘not’ and I turned
it into a contraction by combining the two
and making it ‘doesn't’.
So if the subject is ‘he’, ‘she’,
or ‘it’,
we use ‘does not’ or ‘doesn't’ to
make it negative.
‘You swim well.’
In this case, I don't need to put an ‘s’
at the end of ‘swim’ because the subject
is ‘you’.
If I want to make this sentence negative,
I use ‘don't’.
‘You don't swim well.’
I use the contraction for ‘do’ and ‘not’.
I combine them to make ‘don't’,
so if the subject is ‘I’, ‘you’, ‘we’,
or ‘they’,
we use ‘do not’ or ‘don't’.
So to review ‘do not’ and ‘does not’
or ‘don't’ and ‘doesn't’
is a possible usage for the negative for present
simple
tense.
Let's continue on.
Now I'll talk about one possible question
form for the present simple tense
and that is by using ‘do’ or ‘does’.
So let's look at the example,
‘They live here.’
That's not a question, right?
'They live here’
In order to turn it into a question, it's
really simple.
All I have to do is add ‘do’ to the beginning
and add a question mark at the end.
‘Do they live here?’
So if the subject is ‘I’, ‘you’, ‘we’,
or ‘they’,
simply add ‘do’ to the beginning of the
question.
How about this one,
‘He plays soccer.’
In this statement, the subject is ‘he’
and that's why you should know by now,
I have an ‘s’ at the end of ‘play’.
However, to turn this into a question, I add
‘does’ at the beginning.
‘Does he play soccer?’
What you'll notice here is that I no longer
have the ‘s’ at the end of play.
Instead I just used ‘does’ at the beginning,
so for ‘he’, ‘she’, or ‘it’, put
‘does’ at the beginning,
and don't worry about putting an ‘s’ or
‘es’ at the end of the verb.
So to review, one possible way of forming
a question for the present simple tense is
using ‘do’ or ‘does’ at the beginning.
Alright let's move on.
Let's start with the first checkup.
In this checkup, I want you to focus on the
‘be’ verbs.
Remember ‘be’ verbs, in the present simple
tense, can be ‘is’, ‘am’, or ‘are’.
Take a look at the first sentence.
It says, ‘She _ blank _ at school.’
The subject of this sentence is ‘she’.
What ‘be’ verb do we use for ‘she’?
The correct answer is ‘is’.
Now if you were thinking of the negative,
the
correct answer would be ‘she isn't’
or ‘she is not’.
That's correct as well.
And if we want to use a contraction for ‘she
is’, we can say ‘she's at school’
For the next one, it says,
‘They _ blank _ twenty years old.’
The subject of this sentence is ‘they’.
What ‘be’ verb do we use for ‘they’?
The correct answer is ‘are’.
For the negative, you can also use ‘aren't’
or ‘are not’.
Also if you want to use the contraction for
‘they are’, you can say,
‘They're 20 years old.’
The next sentence says,
‘His father _ blank_ busy.’
The subject of this sentence is ‘his father’.
What subject pronoun do we use for ‘his
father’?
The correct answer is ‘he’.
Remember for ‘he’, ‘she’, ‘it’,
the ‘be’ verb is ‘is’.
For the negative, we can say ‘isn't’ or
‘is not’.
And for a contraction, for ‘father’ and
‘is’, we can say, ‘His father's busy.’
Now I want you to try to find the mistakes
in this sentence.
‘We isn't good friends.’
Did you find the mistake?
This is the mistake.
The subject is ‘we’ and the ‘be’ verb
is ‘are’.
Therefore, the correct answer is ‘we are
not’,
or the contraction, ‘we aren't good friends.’
The next sentence.
Can you find the mistake?
‘Are John a teacher?’
Think about the subject of this sentence.
The subject is ‘John’.
And ‘John’, the subject pronoun is ‘he’.
Therefore, we don't use ‘are’, we use
‘is’.
‘Is John a teacher?’
And finally, ‘It am a puppy.’
hmm
This one is a big mistake.
The subject here is ‘it’.
What ‘be’ verb do we use for ‘it’?
The correct answer is ‘is’.
So we don't say, ‘It am a puppy,’ we say,
‘It is a puppy.’
Great job guys.
Let's move on to the next checkup.
For the next checkup, I want you to think
of some other verbs in the present simple
tense.
Take a look at the first sentence.
‘He __ blank __ …’, I want you to think
of the verb, ‘like his dinner’.
What do we do to the verb when the subject
is ‘he’, ‘she’, or ‘it’?
Remember we add an ‘s’.
‘He likes his dinner.’
For the negative, you can also say, ‘He
doesn't like his dinner.’
The next sentence says, ‘My students __
blank __…’, I want you to think of ‘need’,
‘…books’.
What is the subject pronoun for ‘my students’?
The correct answer is ‘they’.
If the subject is ‘I’, ‘you’, ‘we’,
or ‘they’, in the present simple tense,
we don't change the verb,
we keep it as is.
So the correct answer is,
‘My students need books.’
Now for the negative, you can say,
‘My students don't need books.’
The next sentence says,
‘I __ blank __…’, think of the verb,
‘…live in London.’
What do we do here?
Again the subject is ‘I’, therefore we
don't change the verb.
The correct answer is,
‘I live in London.’
What's the negative?
‘I don't live in London.’
For the next part, I would like for you to
try to find the mistake in the sentence.
‘He doesn't likes math.’
What's the error here?
Well this is a negative.
‘He doesn't…’, that's correct.
However, we do not add an ‘s’ when we
have ‘doesn't’ in front of ‘it’.
‘Do he eat candy?’
Here we have a question.
The subject of the sentence is ‘he’.
For ‘he’, ‘she’, ‘it’, when we're
making a sentence in the present simple tense,
we use ‘does’ not ‘do’.
So the correct answer is,
‘Does he eat candy?’
And finally, ‘Sam is play computer games.’
There are two present simple verbs here and
we can't have that,
so the correct way to fix this sentence is
to get rid of the ‘is’.
So take that out and say,
‘Sam plays computer games.’
Add an ‘s’ because the subject is ‘Sam’
which is a ‘he’.
Great job!
Let's move on to the next practice.
For this next practice, we're taking a look
at routines.
Remember the present simple tense can be used
to describe events that happen regularly.
Let's take a look at the first sentence,
‘We _ blank _ the bus every day.’
And I want you to use the verb ‘take’.
Here we see the clue word ‘every day’
which shows that this is a routine.
The subject of the sentence is ‘we’.
In the present simple tense,
remember if the subject is ‘I’, ‘you’,
‘we’, or ‘they’,
we do not change the verb.
Therefore the correct answer is,
‘We take the bus every day.’
In the second sentence it says,
‘He _ blank _ to school every morning.’
Again a routine.
The subject here is ‘he’.
What do we do if the subject is ‘he’,
‘she’, or ‘it’?
We add ‘s’ or ‘es’ to the verb.
In this example, the verb is ‘go’, so
we have to add ‘es’.
‘He goes to school every morning.’
In the next sentence, it says,
‘Lizzy not play (in parenthesis) tennis.’
Here I want you to think about the negative
form.
Lizzy is a ‘she’.
The subject pronoun is ‘she’ so what do
we do for the negative?
We say ‘does not’ or the contraction ‘doesn't
play tennis’.
We do not add an ‘s’ or ‘es’ to the
end of the verb.
Instead we say ‘doesn't’ or ‘does not’.
Now I want you to find a mistake in the next
sentence.
‘They watches TV at night.’
Can you figure out what's wrong with the sentence?
The subject is ‘they’.
Therefore, remember, we do not change the
verb.
We say ‘watch’.
‘They watch TV at night’.
In the next sentence, or question, it says,
‘Does he plays soccer every week?’
The subject of the sentence is ‘he’.
To make a sentence, putting ‘does’ at
the beginning is okay,
However, we don't put an ‘s’ at the end
of ‘play’.
Therefore, the correct answer is to simply
say,
‘Does he play soccer every week?’
And finally, ‘He always forget his book.’
In this case, the subject is ‘he’.
Remember, again, for he/she/it we add 's'
or 'es' to the end of the verb.
What's the verb in the sentence?
It's ‘forget’.
Therefore we have to say,
‘He always forgets his book.’
Great job.
Let's move on to the next practice.
In this checkup, we'll take a look at how
the present simple tense can be used to describe
future events.
Take a look at the first sentence.
It says, ‘The airplane _ blank _ tonight.’
And we're looking at the verb ‘leave’.
What is the subject of the sentence?
The correct answer is ‘airplane’.
What subject pronoun do we use for ‘airplane’?
It's ‘it’.
Remember in the present simple tense, for
‘he’, ‘she’, ‘it’, we add an ‘s’
or ‘es’ to the verb.
The verb here is ‘leave’ so we simply
add an ‘s’.
The correct answer is,
‘The airplane leaves tonight.’
In the second sentence, it says,
‘Does the movie _blank_ soon?’
And we're using the verb ‘start’.
What is the subject of this sentence?
It’s ‘movie’.
And what subject pronoun do we use for movie?
It’s ‘it’.
So it's like saying, ‘Does it _ blank _
soon?’
Well this is a question, so we already have
the correct word in the front - ‘does’.
For he/she/it, when we're asking a question,
we use ‘does’.
Now all we have to do is use the same verb
in its base form,
so ‘Does the movie start soon?’
We do not add an ‘s’ or ‘es’ here.
Finally, it says,
‘Viki _ blank _ tomorrow.’
The subject of the sentence is ‘Vicki’.
‘Vicki’ is a girl so the subject pronoun
is ‘she’.
You'll remember now that for… in this case,
we put ‘works’.
w-o-r-k-s ‘works’.
‘Vicki works tomorrow.’
Now let's find the mistakes in the sentence
below.
‘He do leave at 3:30 p.m.’
Actually there's only one mistake.
Can you find it?
‘He do leave at 3:30 p.m.’
We do not need the ‘do’ here.
We only use ‘do’ in a question or in the
negative form.
But also the subject is ‘he’, so we would
use ‘does’.
Either way we don't need this here.
Well now we have the verb ‘leave’ with
the subject ‘he’.
Do you know what to do?
We simply change this to ‘leaves’.
Just like we did in the first sentence.
‘He leaves at 3:30 p.m.’
In the next sentence,
‘They don't start school today.’
We have a negative sentence.
‘They don't…’, that's correct.
‘…do not’ is correct.
For subject pronoun ‘they’.
However, in the negative form, we don't have
to change the main verb at all.
Therefore, all we will do is say,
‘They don't start school today.’
No ‘s’.
Finally, ‘Does we eat at noon?’
Take a look.
What is the subject or subject pronoun in
the sentence?
The correct answer is ‘we’.
Think about the question form.
Do we say ‘do’ or ‘does’ in the question
form for the subject pronoun ‘we’?
The correct answer is ‘do’.
We say ‘do’.
So the correct way to say this sentence or
question is,
‘Do we eat at noon?’
Great job guys.
You're done with the practice.
Thank you for your hard work.
Let's move on.
Good job guys.
You put in a lot of practice today.
The present simple tense is not easy,
and I'm really happy to see how hard you guys
worked on mastering it.
Be sure to check out my other videos and thank
you for watching this video.
I'll see you next time.
Bye.
Hi, everybody.
I'm Esther.
I'm so excited to be teaching you the
present continuous tense in this video.
This tense is used to describe:
an action that's happening right now,
a longer action in progress ,
and something happening in the near future.
There's a lot to learn, but don't worry I'll
guide you through it.
Let's get started.
The present continuous tense is used to talk
about actions that are happening right now.
For example,
‘I'm teaching English’ and
‘You are studying English.’
Let's take a look at some more examples.
The first sentence says, ‘He is watching a movie’.
We start with the subject and a ‘be’ verb.
In this case, the subject is ‘he’.
For ‘he’ / ‘she’ and ‘it’,
we use the ‘be’ verb ‘is’.
Then you'll notice I added an ‘-ing’
to the end of the verb ‘watch’.
‘He is watching a movie.’
The next sentence says,
‘Tim is playing a computer game.’
He's doing that right now.
Tim is a ‘he’, therefore, again
we use the ‘be’ verb ‘is’.
And again you'll notice I added
‘-ing’ to the end of the verb.
The next sentence says,
‘The machine is making a noise.’
Now pay attention to the subject, ‘the machine’.
What is the proper pronoun?
The answer is ‘it’, therefore
we use the ‘be’ verb ‘is’.
‘The machine is making a noise.’
We can also say, ‘It is making a noise’.
Or the contraction, ‘It's making a noise’.
And finally, ‘Tom and Ben are speaking English’.
In this case, you'll notice
that we use the ‘be’ verb ‘are’.
Can you figure out why?
That's because Tom and Ben -
the subject pronoun for these two is ‘they’.
‘They are speaking English.’
Let's move on to the next usage.
The present continuous tense is also used
to describe a longer action in progress.
Even though you might not be
doing the action right now.
Let's take a look at some examples.
The first sentence says,
‘I'm reading an interesting book these days.’
In this case, the subject is
‘I’, so the ‘be’ verb is ‘am’.
In this example, we use the contraction
‘I'm’ by putting ‘I’ and ‘am’ together.
Again, you'll notice there's
an ‘-ing’ after the verb.
The next sentence says,
‘You are studying to become an English teacher.’
The subject here is ‘you’,
therefore the ‘be’ verb is ‘are’.
Next, ‘Steven is preparing for the IELTS exam.’
The subject here is ‘Steven’ which is a ‘he’,
therefore we use the ‘be’ verb ‘is’.
And finally,
‘John and June are working at a company.’
If you look at the subject ‘John and June’,
the pronoun for that is ‘they’.
That's why we use the ‘be’ verb ‘are’.
‘They are working at a company.’
Let's move on to the next usage.
The present continuous is also used
to talk about near future plans.
Let's take a look.
‘She is meeting some friends tonight.’
That's going to happen in the near future.
You'll notice that we have 'she', so the ‘be’
verb is ‘is’.
And then we added an ‘-ing’ to the end
of the verb ‘meet’.
The next example says,
‘We are going on vacation in July.’
The subject here is ‘we’, therefore we
use the ‘be’ verb ‘are’.
We can also use a contraction and say,
‘We're going on vacation in July.’
Again, another near future plan.
The next example says,
‘David is learning to drive tomorrow.’
‘tomorrow’ is the near future.
‘David’ is the subject.
‘David’ is a ‘he’, so we use ‘is’.
And lastly,
‘Vicki and I are teaching English next week.’
‘Vicky and I’…
If we think about the subject pronoun is ‘we’.
That's why we used ‘are’.
‘We are teaching.’
Let's move on.
Now let's talk about the negative
form of the present continuous tense.
I have some examples here.
These two examples are for actions that are
happening right now, or longer actions.
These last two are for near future plans.
Let's take a look.
The first sentence says,
‘I am not having fun.’
Now that's not true for me because I am having
fun,
but in this example I am not having fun.
You'll notice that the word ‘not’ goes
between the ‘be’ verb and the ‘verb -ing’.
In the second example it says,
‘Jane isn't doing her homework.’
Here we use the contraction ‘isn't’ for ‘is not’,
so just like the first sentence, we put ‘not’
between ‘is’ and ‘verb -ing’.
The next sentence says,
‘You're not seeing him tonight.’
Here we have a contraction for ‘you are’.
And finally,
‘We are not running tomorrow morning.’
Here we have the subject ‘we’, therefore,
we use the ‘be’ verb ‘are’.
Don’t forget to add a ‘not’ after that
to make it negative.
Let's move on.
Now let's talk about how to form ‘be’ verb
questions in the present continuous tense.
The first example here says,
‘Is he waiting for you?’
or ‘Is he waiting for you?’
We start with the ‘be’ verb.
Take a look at the subject though.
The subject is ‘he’ and that's why we
start with the ‘be’ verb ‘is’.
‘Is he waiting for you?’
You can answer, ‘Yes, he is.’ or ‘No he isn't.’
The second sentence says,
‘Are you coming to class?’
The subject here is ‘you’ and
that's why we start with ‘are’.
‘Are you coming to class?’
You can answer, ‘Yes I am.’ or ‘No, I'm not.’
The next question says,
‘Is he preparing to study in Canada?’
The subject is ‘he’, and so we start with ‘is’.
The answer can be, ‘Yes, he is.’
or it can also be ‘No, he isn't.’
Finally the last question says,
‘Are they going out tonight?’
The subject here is ‘they’,
and so we start with ‘are’.
The answer can be ‘Yes, they are.’
or ‘No, they aren't.’
Let's move on.
Now let's talk about the WH question
form for the present continuous tense.
I have some examples here
and you'll notice that we start with the
WH questions:
what, where, when, who, why, and how.
What comes after?
You'll notice it's the ‘be’ verbs: ‘are’,
‘is’, and if the subject is ‘I’, ‘am’.
So after that you have the subject and then
the verb -ing.
Let's take a look at the first sentence.
‘What are you doing?’
I'm asking about right now.
For example, ‘I'm teaching English.’
‘Where are you going?’
‘I'm going to the store.’
‘When is it starting?’
‘It's starting at 3.’
I can be talking about a movie a show anything
can be ‘it’.
‘Who is she talking to?’
‘She's talking to Bob.’
‘Why is she crying?’
‘She's crying because she's sad.’
And finally, ‘How is it going?’
‘It's going well.’
For this checkup of the present continuous tense,
we'll look at how this tense can be used to
describe an action that's happening right now.
Let's take a look at the first sentence.
‘You -blank- learning English.’
Remember for this tense, we start
with the subject and the ‘be’ verb
and then the verb ‘-ing’.
We already have the verb ‘-ing’ here,
so we need the ‘be’ verb.
The subject in the first sentence is ‘you’.
For ‘you’, ‘we’, and ‘they’,
we use the ‘be’ verb - ‘are’,
so the correct answer is,
‘You are learning English’ right now.
The next sentence says,
‘She _blank_ not watching TV.’
This is the negative form of
the present continuous tense.
We have the word ‘not’ before the verb ‘-ing’,
However, we're missing the ‘be’ verb again.
What is the be verb to use
if the subject is ‘she’?
the correct answer is ‘is’.
‘She is not watching TV.’
This one says, ‘I _blank_ studying now.’
The subject here is ‘I’.
Again think of the ‘be’ verb that goes
before the subject ‘I’.
The ‘be’ verb is ‘am’.
‘I am studying now.’
We can also use a contraction and say,
‘I'm studying now’
If we wanted to turn this into the negative form,
we can also say, ‘I'm not studying now.’
Now, take a look at the next
sentence and find the mistake.
‘Layla is watch a movie.’
Here we have the subject and the subject pronoun
for Layla would be ‘she’.
We have the correct ‘be’ verb - ‘is’,
However, you'll notice we forgot
the ‘-ing’ at the end of the verb.
We need to say, ‘watching’.
‘Layla is watching a movie.’
The next sentence says,
‘They playing soccer now.’
What's missing?
If you got it the correct answer is we need
the ‘be’ verb – ‘are’
because the subject is ‘they’.
‘They are playing soccer now.’
And finally,
‘What do you do?’
If you want to ask somebody
what they're doing right now,
you say, 'what’... and the ‘be’ verb – ‘are...
you.. doing?’
‘What are you doing?’
Let's move on to the next practice.
For this checkup we'll talk about the present
continuous tense
and how it can be used to describe an action
that started in the past and continues today.
It's a longer action.
Let's take a look at the first sentence.
‘He _blank_ studying economics.’
Remember for this tense, we take the
subject, a ‘be’ verb, and then verb ‘-ing’.
Here we already have the verb ‘-ing’, ‘studying’.
So what are we missing?
The ‘be’ verb.
The correct ‘be’ verb for
the subject ‘he’ is ‘is’.
So, ‘He is studying economics.’
The next sentence says,
‘They're _blank_ for the fight.’
The verb we want to use is ‘train’.
Now we already have the 'be' verb here.
It's in the contraction ‘there’
because it's ‘they are’.
All we have to do now is add ‘-ing’ to the verb.
‘They're training for the fight these days.’
And ‘We _blank_ teaching at the school.’
Again we're missing the ‘be’ verb.
What is the ‘be’ verb for ‘we’?
The correct answer is ‘are’.
‘We are teaching at the school.’
Now let's look for the
mistakes in the next sentence.
‘Ben is study to become a doctor.’
Can you find the error?
Well we have the subject
and we have the proper ‘be verb’.
What we're missing is the ‘-ing’
at the end of ‘study’.
The correct answer is,
‘Ben is studying to become a doctor’.
Let's look at the next sentence.
‘I don't reading that book.’
hmm
To form the negative in the present continuous,
we don't use ‘do’ or ‘does’
We use the ‘be’ verb.
What is the be verb for ‘I’?
The correct answer is ‘am’.
‘I am not reading that book.’
There is no contraction for ‘am not’.
Finally, ‘They are to learn English.’
We have the subject and we have the correct
‘be’ verb,
but remember we need verb ‘-ing’.
Therefore, the correct answer is,
‘They are learning English.’
Let's move on to the next checkup.
For this checkup we'll take a look at how
the present continuous tense
can be used to talk about future plans.
Let's take a look.
The first sentence says,
‘They're play a game tonight.’
The verb we want to use is ‘play’.
Remember we start with the subject
and here we have it, ‘they’.
Then we have the ‘be’ verb.
In this case we used a contraction
for ‘they are – ‘they’re’.
That's correct.
After that we have to add ‘-ing’ to the
end of the verb,
so the correct answer is,
‘They're playing a game tonight.’
The next sentence says,
'We _blank_ not studying tomorrow.’
Looks good but there's a word that's missing.
This is the negative form because we have ‘not’.
We simply need the ‘be’ verb for ‘we’.
The correct ‘be’ verb is ‘are’.
‘We are not studying tomorrow.’
The next sentence says,
‘Lynn is _blank_ out tonight.’
and we want to use the verb ‘go’.
Remember 'Lynn' and then the ‘be’ verb – ‘is’.
That's correct.
All we have to do is add ‘-ing’.
‘Lynn is going out tonight.’
To make this negative you can say,
‘Lynn is not going out tonight.’ or
‘Lynn isn't going out tonight.’
The next sentence says,
‘Laura isn't study this evening.’
Can you find the mistake?
Remember we have to add
‘-ing’ to the end of the verb,
so we need to say,
‘Laura isn't studying this evening.’
The next sentence says,
‘My sons will playing chess later.’
We are talking about a future plan,
so you might be tempted to use ‘well’
or ‘will’, I'm sorry.
However, instead of saying ‘will’, we
use the ‘be’ verb.
‘My sons are playing chess later.’
And finally, ‘She's not to eating dinner tonight.’
There's an extra word in here that we don't need.
What is it?
It's ‘to’.
Remember, subject - ‘be’ verb, not verb ‘-ing’.
We do not need ‘to’ in this sentence.
All right well that's the end of this checkup.
Let's move on.
Good job, everyone.
You just completed the lesson
on the present continuous tense.
This tense is not easy but you did a great job.
And keep watching to learn more.
I know English can be difficult but with practice
and effort you will improve.
I promise.
See you in the next video.
Hi, everyone.
I'm Esther.
In this video, I'm going to introduce the
present perfect tense.
This tense can be used to talk about an action
that happened in the past,
but when it happened is not very important
or it’s unknown.
It can also be used to talk about an action
that started in the past and continues in
the present.
We really want to emphasize how long that
action has been happening.
And finally, we use this tense to talk about
a recent action.
There's a lot to learn and a lot of important
information, so keep watching.
Let's talk about one usage of the present
perfect tense.
This tense can be used to talk about an action
that happened in the past.
But when it happened is not important or not
known.
However, this action is
important to the conversation
right now.
Let's take a look at some examples.
The first one says, ‘I have been to Canada.’
What we do here is we start with the subject,
‘I’.
For ‘I’, ‘you’, ‘we’, and ‘they’,
we follow with ‘have’.
After that we use the past participle of the
verb.
In this case, the verb is ‘be’.
And so the past participle is ‘been’.
‘I have been to Canada.’
The next sentence says, ‘My cousins have
seen the movie.’
My cousins is a ‘they’.
And so again, we follow with ‘have’.
And the past participle of see is ‘seen’.
‘They have seen the movie.’
Or ‘My cousins have seen the movie.’
The next example says, ‘Chad has gone home.’
Chad is a ‘he’.
For ‘he’, ‘she’, ‘it’, we follow
with ‘has’.
Then, the past participle ‘gone’ is for
the verb ‘go’.
‘Chad has gone home.’
And finally, ‘My phone has been fixed.’
My phone is an ‘it’.
Therefore, I use ‘has’.
And then I need the past participle of ‘be’
– ‘been’.
‘My phone has been fixed.’
Let's move on to the next usage.
The present perfect tense is also used to
describe an action that started in the past
and continues in the present.
‘for’ and since’ are common expressions
used with the present perfect tense.
Let's take a look at these examples.
‘I have worked there since 2002.’
You'll notice we start with the subject.
If it's ‘I’, ‘you’ or ‘we’, we
have ‘have’.
Then the past participle of the verb.
In this case - ‘worked’.
What you'll notice here is that we also have
‘since 2002’.
This shows when the action started, so with
the expression ‘since’, you need to use
a specific point in time.
The next example does the same thing.
‘You have had a car since last year.’
Again, we use ‘since’, so we have a specific
point in time - ‘last year’.
Take a look at the next example.
‘Anna has liked him for weeks.’
In this case the subject is ‘Anna’.
Which is a ‘she’, and so we use ‘has’.
Then the past participle ‘liked’.
However, at the end of the sentence, we see
‘for weeks’.
Not ‘since weeks’.
When we use ‘for’, we talk about the duration.
We explain how long this action has been true.
And finally, ‘We have eaten lunch here for
3 months.’
Again, the sentence ends with ‘for 3 months’.
So we show the duration.
Let's move on to the next usage.
In addition, the present perfect tense can
be used to describe an action that recently
stopped.
Let’s take a look at some examples.
‘I have just been to the doctor,’
So just like for all the other usages, we
start with the subject,
‘have’ or ‘has’, and the past participle.
But you'll notice here, I used the word ‘just’
between ‘have’ and the verb.
‘I have just been to the doctor.’
This shows that it happened very recently.
The next example says, ‘James has just seen
his new baby.’
Again, just goes in between ‘have’ or
‘has’ and the verb.
Take a look at the next example.
It says, ‘She has already been to China.’
‘already’ is another word you can use
to show that this action recently happened.
However, ‘already’ can also be moved to
the end of the sentence.
So it's perfectly fine to say, ‘She has
been to China already.’
And in the last example, ‘We have recently
visited Tom.’
Again, you can put this word between ‘have’
or ‘has’ and the verb.
Or you can also put it at the end of the sentence.
‘We have visited Tom recently.’
Let's move on.
Let's take a look at the negative form of
the present perfect tense.
Here are some examples.
The first one says, ‘I have not been to
Europe.’
What you'll notice in the first sentence is
that we simply put a 'not' between ‘have’
and ‘been’.
‘I have not been to Europe.’
You can also use a contraction and say ‘I
haven't been to Europe.’
The next sentence says, ‘It has not rained
for 3 months.’
Again, we put the ‘not’ between the ‘has’
and the verb.
‘It has not rained for 3 months.’
Here we have a time expression to show the
duration.
The next example says, ‘Teddy hasn't driven
for 2 years.’
We used the contraction here for ‘has’
and ‘not’ – ‘hasn't’.
And then we use the time expression ‘for
2 years’ at the end of the sentence.
And finally, the last sentence says, ‘My
sons haven't played soccer since 2010.’
We see another contraction here for ‘have
not’ – ‘haven't’.
‘My sons haven't played soccer since 2010.’
This time expression uses ‘since’.
And so we mention a specific point and time.
Let's move on.
Now let's take a look at the ‘have’ or
‘has’ question form of the present perfect
tense.
Take a look at the board.
The first sentence says, ‘Mike has eaten
lunch.’
That is a statement.
Now to turn it into a question, it's quite
easy.
All you have to do is put ‘has’ at the
beginning.
Then you follow with the subject and then
the past participle.
You'll notice that the placement of the past
participle doesn't change.
We've simply changed the order of the first
2 words.
‘Has Mike eaten lunch?’
And you can answer by saying ‘Yes, he has.’
or ‘No, he hasn't.’
The next sentence says, ‘They have watched
the video.’
This is a statement.
If we want to turn it into a question, again,
we change the order of the first two words.
‘Have they…?’
And the past participle verb stays in the
same place.
‘Have they watched the video?’
You can answer this question by saying, ‘Yes,
they have.’
or ‘No, they haven't.’
Good job, guys.
Let's move on.
Now, I'll briefly introduce how to ask WH
questions in the present perfect tense.
Take a look at the board.
I have ‘where’, ‘what’, ‘who’,
and ‘how’.
These go at the beginning of the question.
Let's take a look at the first example.
‘Where has Tim been?’
You'll notice we followed the WH word with
‘has’ or ‘have’.
In this case, I used ‘has’ because the
subject is ‘Tim’, and Tim is a ‘he’.
And then we followed that with the past participle
of the verb.
‘Where has Tim been?’
And I can answer by saying, ‘Tim has been
home.’
or ‘Tim has been on vacation.’
Something like that.
The next question says, what countries have
you visited?
I can answer by saying, ‘I have visited
China.’
or ‘I have visited Mexico.’
You can also use the contraction ‘I’ve’.
‘I've visited China.’
The next question says, ‘Who has she talked
to?’
You can answer by saying, ‘She has talked
to her mom.’ or ‘She has talked to her
teacher.’
The next question says, ‘How long have you
been married?’
‘I've been married for 3 years.’
That's one answer that you can give.
Great job, everybody.
Let's move on.
For this checkup, we'll take a look at the
present perfect tense.
Which describes an action that happened at
an unknown or indefinite time in the past.
Let's look at the first sentence.
‘She _blank_ read that book.’
The subject in this sentence is ‘she’.
For he/she/it, in this tense we say, ‘has’.
‘She has’.
Now, take a look at the verb.
It looks like ‘read’.
But remember we need to use the past participle
of the verb.
So It's actually ‘read’.
‘read’ and ‘read’ are spelled the
same.
‘She has read that book.’
The second sentence says, ‘They _blank_
visit China.’
‘visit’ is the verb that you want to use
here.
For ‘I’, ‘you’, ‘we’ and ‘they’,
we use ‘have’.
Not ‘has’.
‘They have’
Now, what's the past participle of visit?
The answer is ‘visited’.
‘They have visited China.’
Next, ‘We _blank_ see that concert.’
Again, for ‘I’, ‘you’, we’ and ‘they’
– we use ‘have’.
‘We have’.
Now, the past participle of ‘see’ is 'seen'.
‘We have seen that concert.’
Now, let's look for the mistake in the next
sentence.
‘Rick have been to Cuba.’
Take a look at the subject, ‘Rick’.
Rick is a ‘he’.
So instead of ‘have’, we need to change
this to ‘has’.
‘Rick has been to Cuba.’
‘Sally and I hasn't finished work.’
The subject in this sentence is ‘Sally’
and ‘I’.
The pronoun for that is ‘we’.
‘We hasn't finished work.’
That still sounds weird, right?
We have to change this to ‘have not’ or
the contraction ‘haven't’.
And finally, ‘I did go to the doctor.’
Now this sentence makes sense, but it's not
the present perfect tense.
We have to change it.
Remember, we use ‘have’ for the subject,
‘I’.
But we're not done.
What is the past participle of ‘go’?
It is ‘gone’.
‘I have gone to the doctor.’
Great job.
Let's move on to the next checkup.
In this checkup, we'll talk about the present
perfect tense
and how it can be used to describe an action
that started in the past and is still true
today.
The first sentence says, ‘I _blank_ known
Carly since 1994.’
The subject is ‘I’.
And we already have the past participle of
the verb, ‘know’.
Which is ‘known’.
What are we missing?
The correct answer is ‘have’.
For ‘I’, ‘you’, ‘we’ and ‘they’,
we use ‘have’ after the subject.
The next sentence says,
‘He has been here _blank_ 2 p.m.’
Now the first part is all there.
‘He has been’.
However, remember that for the present perfect
tense,
we use ‘for’ or ‘since’ to talk about
how long that action has been true.
In this case, we use ‘since’.
Because 2 p.m. is a specific period in time.
Next it says, ‘She _blank_ liked Tom since
June.’
The subject is ‘she’.
And we have the past participle of the verb
‘like’, which is 'liked'.
What are we missing?
Again, we need ‘have’ or ‘has’.
Because the subject is ‘she’...
Can you figure out which one you need?
The correct answer is ‘has’.
‘She has liked Tom since June.’
Now, I want you to find a mistake in the next
sentence.
‘I have worked here six months ago.’
Can you find a mistake here?
‘I have worked’ - that's correct.
However, in the present perfect tense, we
don't use ‘ago’.
This is talking about more the past.
We want to talk about ‘since’ or ‘for’
instead.
Now ‘six months’ is not a specific time.
So we don't use ‘since’.
Instead, we talk about the duration.
So we need ‘for’.
We'll say, ‘I have worked here for six months.’
Let's take a look at the next sentence.
‘Jen have a cold for two weeks.’
At first glance, this doesn't seem that wrong.
But remember, Jen is a ‘she’.
So we need ‘has’.
‘Jen has’.
But wait a minute, ‘Jen has have a cold’?
That's not right either.
We need the past participle of ‘have’.
What is the past participle?
The correct answer is ‘had’.
‘Jen has had a cold for two weeks.’
And finally, ‘We haven't went home since
Friday.’
This one is a little tricky.
The subject is ‘we’.
‘We have... have not’.
That's correct.
The contraction is ‘haven't’.
‘We haven't’.
Now the problem is, we have this verb ‘went’.
That's in the past simple tense.
We need the past participle of ‘go’.
The correct answer is ‘gone’.
‘We haven't gone home since Friday.’
Good job, guys.
Let's move on to the next checkup.
In this checkup, we'll take a look at the
present perfect tense.
And how it is used to describe an action that
finished recently.
We'll be focusing on the words, ‘just’,
‘already’ and ‘recently’ to show this.
Let's take a look at the first sentence.
‘She has just _blank_ that book.’
And we're using the verb, ‘read’.
Remember, we take the subject, ‘she’.
And for ‘he’, ‘she’ and ‘it’,
we say ‘has’.
So that's correct.
Now we need the past participle of ‘read’.
And that is ‘read’.
‘She has just read that book.’
You'll notice I use the word, ‘just’ right
before the past participle.
Next it says, ‘They have already’ and
the verb is ‘wake up’.
If the subject is ‘he’, ‘she’, or
‘it’, we use ‘has’.
But if the subject is ‘I’, ‘you’,
‘we’ or ‘they’, we use ‘have’.
So that's correct.
‘They have’.
Also we have the word ‘already’ here
to show that it happened recently
or that it finished recently.
Now the verb is ‘wake up’.
We need the past participle of ‘wake up’,
and that is ‘woken up’.
So the answer is,
‘They have already woken up.’
The next sentence says,
‘We have recently _blank_ work.’
And the verb is ‘finish’.
‘We have’, that's correct.
And we have the word 'recently' to show when
the action finished.
And now we need to find the past participle
of the verb ‘finish’.
The correct answer is.
‘We have recently finished, -ed, work.’
Now try to find the mistake in the next sentence.
‘Morty has eaten just.’
This sounds a little strange, right?
That's because ‘just’ needs to come before
the verb.
Therefore, the answer is ‘Morty has just
eaten.’
The next sentence says, ‘Karen has recently
be sick.’
Karen is a ‘she’.
So ‘has’ is correct.
And there we have ‘recently’.
Now we need the past participle of the verb.
‘be’ is our verb and the past participle
of ‘be’ is ‘been’.
‘Karen has recently been sick.’
And finally, ‘I have gone already to the
dentist.’
This is similar to another question we looked
at just before.
‘I have gone already to the dentist.’
The placement of ‘already’ is a little
awkward.
So we can say, ‘I have already gone.’
So we can put ‘already’ before the verb,
‘I have already gone to the dentist’
Or we can put this at the end,
‘I have gone to the dentist already.’
Both of those are correct.
Now, good job.
That is the end of the checkup.
Let's move on.
Excellent job, everyone.
You just learned about the present perfect
tense.
There was a lot to learn, but you did a wonderful
job.
Keep studying English.
I know that It's hard, but you will get better
with time, effort and practice.
I'll see you in the next video.
Hi, everyone.
Welcome to the video.
In this video, I’ll introduce the Present
Perfect Continuous English Tense.
This tense can be used to talk about an action
that started in the past and continues in
the present.
It can also be used to talk about an action
that hasn't happened recently.
And finally, it can also be used to talk about
an action that recently stopped.
There's a lot to learn, so keep watching.
You can use the present perfect continuous
tense
to talk about an action that started in the
past and continues in the present.
We want to emphasize duration
and you can do that by using ‘for’ or
‘since’ in your sentence.
Let's take a look at some examples.
‘Charles has been studying English for an
hour.’
Take a look at the subject, ‘Charles’.
The subject pronoun for Charles is ‘he’.
And that's why we say ‘has’.
After that, we add ‘been’ and then verb
‘-ing’.
In this case, ‘studying.’
You'll also notice that at the end of the
sentence we have for an hour.
That shows how long this
action has been happening.
When you use ‘for’, you emphasize the
duration. ‘for an hour’.
‘Charles has been studying English for an
hour.’
Let's take a look at the next sentence.
‘Lily has been playing the piano for 2 years.’
In this case, Lily is a ‘she’ and that's
why, again, we say ‘has’.
You'll notice again, we have ‘been’ and
then verb ‘-ing’.
In this case, ‘playing’.
At the end of this sentence, we also used
‘for’.
and then ‘two years’.
So again, we're showing how long this has
been happening.
The next sentence is a little different.
‘It has been growing since June.’
So it can be something like a plant.
The plant or it has been growing since June.
Here we use ‘since’, not ‘for’.
What's the difference?
We use a specific point in time with since.
We don't say ‘Since two hours’.
No, we say ‘When the action started since
June.’
And finally, ‘Dan and I have been working
since 6 a.m.’
The subject pronoun for ‘Dan and I’ is
‘We’.
Therefore we use ‘have’.
At the end of the sentence, we have ‘since
6 a.m.’
Remember that with ‘since’, we talked
about a specific point in time when the action
started.
Let's move on.
The present perfect continuous can also be
used without emphasizing duration.
In this case, we mean ‘lately’.
This action has been happening ‘lately’,
and so we can use the word ‘lately’ or
‘recently’ to explain this.
Let's take a look at some examples.
‘You have been missing many classes lately.’
You'll notice that at the end of the sentence
I use the word ‘lately'
to describe when this action has been happening.
You can also use lately at the beginning of
the sentence.
For example, ‘Lately, you have been missing
many classes.’
The next example says, ‘Recently, Toby has
been running every day.’
In this sentence, we used ‘recently’ at
the beginning
to show when does action has been happening.
You can also use ‘recently’ at the end
of the sentence.
‘Toby has been running everyday recently.’
In this example, the subject is Toby and so
we use ‘has’ after Toby.
Because Toby is a ‘he’.
The next example says, ‘Lately, Dana has
been swimming a lot.’
Again, we use ‘lately’ at the beginning
of this sentence,
but you can also use it at the end.
Dana is a ‘she’ and so we followed this
subject with ‘has’.
And finally, ‘We've been practicing English
together recently.’
‘We’ is the subject of this sentence and
so we use ‘have’.
Here, we use the contraction ‘We’ve’.
‘We have’ become ‘We've’.
‘We've been practicing English together
recently.’
We can put ‘recently’ at the end,
or we can say ‘Recently we've been practicing
English together.’
Let's move on.
The present perfect continuous tense and also
be used to talk about an action that recently
stopped and has a present result.
Let's take a look at the example.
‘I'm tired because I have been running.’
The second part of the sentence, ‘I have
been running’
is using the present perfect continuous tense.
This is the action that recently stopped.
And as a result, ‘I'm tired’.
This is the present result.
What's happening now, because of this.
‘I'm tired.’.
The next example says, ‘The street is wet
because it has been raining.’
This is very similar to the first sentence.
Here, we know that it has been raining.
And this action recently stopped.
As a result, in the present, The street is
wet.
The street is wet right now because of this
action.
The next example says, ‘You don't understand
because you haven't been listening.’
You'll notice here that we use the negative.
Here's the contractions, ‘haven't’ or
‘have not’
because of this action,
you haven't been listening,
now you don't understand.
In the last example, we switch the order a
little bit.
‘I've been studying all night.’
There is the present perfect continuous tense.
This is the action that stopped recently.
And here is the result.
‘Now, I'm exhausted.’
Great job, everyone.
Let's move on.
Let's take a look at the negative form of
the present perfect continuous tense.
Here are some examples.
‘I have not been feeling well these days.’
At the end of the sentence we have ‘these
days’ to show that this is an action that's
been happening recently.
In the negative form, we have to have ‘not’.
The ‘not’ goes after have or has.
In this case, the subject is ‘I’, so I
use ‘have’.
‘I have not been feeling well these days.’
We can also use a contraction ‘haven't’
or ‘have not’.
‘I haven't been feeling well these days.’
The next sentence says, ‘Sue has not been
cooking lately.’
We have ‘lately’ at the end of this sentence,
We can also put ‘lately’ at the beginning
of the sentence.
The important part of this sentence is to
put ‘not’ after ‘has’.
Why did we use ‘has’?
Because the subject is ‘Sue’ which is
a 'she'.
For ‘he’, ‘she’, ‘it’, we use
‘has’.
Again, we can use a contraction ‘hasn't’
for has not.
‘Sue hasn't been cooking lately.’
The next sentence says, ‘Jeff hasn't been
eating healthy food recently.’
Again, the ‘recently’ can be used at the
beginning or end of this sentence.
We have the contestant ‘hasn't’ here for
you.
‘hasn't’ is a contraction for ‘has not’.
We have ‘has’ because the subject is Jeff
which is ‘he’.
And finally, ‘They haven't been speaking
for over a year.’
In this case, ‘for over a year’ shows
duration.
Remember with ‘for’, you show how long
something has been happening.
In this case, we have a contraction ‘haven't’
or ‘have not’.
Great job, everybody.
let's move on.
Now, let's take a look at how to form the
‘have’ or ‘has’ question
for the present perfect continuous tense.
The first sentence says, ‘He has been reading
for an hour,’
Now, to turn this into a question,
all we have to do is change the order of the
first two words.
So ‘He has’ becomes ‘Has he’.
‘Has he been reading for an hour?’
You'll notice that the second part of the
sentence doesn't change.
‘Has he been reading for an hour?’
To answer, you can simply say, ‘Yes, he
has.’ or ‘No, he hasn't.’
The next sentence says, ‘They have been
sleeping since 8 p.m.’
Again, the second part of the sentence stays
the same,
and in the beginning, we just switch the first
two words.
‘They have’ become ‘Have they’.
‘Have they been sleeping since 8 p.m.?’
To answer, you can say, ‘Yes, they have.’
or ‘No. they haven't.’
Great job, everybody.
Let's move on.
Now, let's take a look at how to form WH questions
in the present perfect continuous tense.
Here, we have some WH question words.
‘what’, ‘where’, ‘why’ and ‘how’.
Let's take a look at the first question.
‘What have you been doing lately?’
I can answer by saying,
‘I have been working.’
or ‘I have been studying.’
I can also use the contraction ‘I've’.
‘I've been working.’
‘I've been studying.’
The next question says, ‘Where have you
been traveling?’
‘I have been traveling in Europe.’
or ‘I've been traveling in Europe.’
‘Why has he been feeling sad?’
You can answer by saying, ‘He's been feeling
sad.’
That's the contraction ‘he has’, he's
been feeling sad because his pet died.
or ‘He has been feeling sad because he broke
up with his girlfriend.’
Something like that.
And ‘How has she been doing?’
‘How has she been doing?’
I can say, ‘She's been doing well.’
‘She's’ is a contraction for ‘she has’.
Great job, everyone.
Let's move on.
In this checkup, we will talk about the present
perfect continuous tense.
This tense can be used to describe an event
that started in the past and continues in
the present.
Let's take a look.
The first sentence says,
‘He has _blank_ all week,’
And the verb is ‘sleep’.
For this tense, what we do is we first look
at the subject, ‘he’.
For ‘he’, ‘she’ and ‘it’, we put
‘has’.
Then, we add ‘been’.
‘has been’.
Finally we add ‘-ing’ to the end.
‘He has been sleeping all week.’
The next sentence says,
‘You haven't _blank_ for a year.’
and the verb is ‘travel’.
Now, this is the negative form.
So you see the contraction - ‘haven't’.
‘You have not’ or ‘You haven't’.
Again, what we do after that is add ‘been’.
Then, do you remember what to do?
Add ‘-ing’ to the verb.
‘You haven't been traveling for a year.’
Next, it says ‘They _blank_ working all
day.’
So the verb ‘-ing’ has already been provided
for you.
Now, take a look at the subject.
The subject is ‘they’.
Should we use ‘have’?
or should we use ‘has’?
The correct answer is ‘have’.
Then what do you put?
Remember, we put ‘been’.
‘They have been working all day.’
Now if you want to make this negative,
you can say,
‘They haven't been working all day.’
Now find the mistake in the next sentence.
‘My friends have been watch TV.’
What's the mistake?
Remember, we need to add ‘-ing’ to the
end of the verb.
So we should say,
‘My friends have been watching TV.’
Next, ‘Sal did talking for 10 minutes.’
Hmm..
Sal is a ‘he'.
And ‘talking’ is already there for you.
So what's in the middle of those two words
is the mistake.
For ‘he’, we use ‘has’.
So we say ‘has been’.
‘Sal has been talking for 10 minutes.’
And finally,
‘He has been to eat for an hour.’
Hmm..
‘He has been’
That's correct.
However, in this sentence, the base form of
the verb ‘eat’ was used.
Instead, remember we need ‘-ing’.
This is the correct answer.
‘He has been eating for an hour.’
All right, good job.
and let's move on to the next practice.
In this practice, we'll take a look at the
present perfect continuous tense,
And see how it expresses an action that has
been happening recently or lately.
Let's take a look at the first sentence.
‘She has _blank_ bad lately.’
And the verb is ‘feel’.
Remember for ‘she’, we use ‘has’.
Then don't forget we need to have ‘been’.
‘She has been’
After that, we add ‘-ing’ to the verb.
The correct sentence is,
‘She has been feeling bad lately.’
The next sentence says,
‘We haven't _blank_ much recently.’
And the verb is ‘cook’.
This is a negative sentence.
So we say, ‘We have not’ or the contraction
- ‘haven't’.
‘We haven't’
Don't forget ‘been’, and then verb ‘-ing’.
‘We haven't been cooking much recently.’
Finally, we move on, let's try to find the
mistake.
‘We has been riding bikes to school recently.’
What's the mistake in this sentence?
The subject here is ‘We’.
For ‘I’, ‘you’, ‘we’ and ‘they’,
we have to say ‘have been’, not ‘has
been’.
‘We have been riding bikes to school recently.’
And for the last one,
‘Jenny lately hasn't been helping me.’
The lately is placed wrong in this sentence.
We have to say,
‘Lately, Jenny hasn't been helping me.’
or we can also say,
‘Jenny hasn't been helping me lately.’
Let's move on to the next checkup.
In this checkup, we'll talk about the present
perfect continuous tense
and how it expresses an action that stopped
recently
but has a present result.
The first sentence says,
‘I _blank_ . That's why I'm so sweaty.’
The verb here is ‘exercise’.
And the subject is ‘I’.
Do we use ‘has’ or ‘have’ for the
subject ‘I’?
The correct answer is ‘have’.
Then, we put ‘been’ and then verb ‘-ing’.
Okay, so the correct answer is,
‘I have been exercising.
That's why I'm so sweaty.’
That's the result.
The next sentence says,
‘I'm covered in flour because I _blank_.’
And the verb is ‘bake’.
Take a look.
I have ‘I'm covered in flour because’
So this first part is the result.
I need to show the action that stopped recently
in the present perfect continuous tense.
Again, the subject is ‘I’.
So we use ‘have been’.
Then, all we do is add ‘-ing’ to the end
of baking.
‘I have been baking.’
So again,
‘I'm covered in flour because
I have been baking.’
And we can use the contraction and say,
‘I've been baking.’
Now, find the mistake in the next sentence.
‘She has think a lot, so she has a headache.’
Take a look.
The result is that ‘she has a headache.’
So we need to use the present perfect continuous
for the first part.
‘She has’ is correct.
What's missing?
Don't forget the ‘been’.
Also don't forget that we need to add ‘-ing’
to the verb.
‘She has been thinking a lot, so she has
a headache.’
Look at the next sentence and find the mistake.
‘I'm so hungry because I have been diet.’
The only mistake here is that someone forgot
to put the ‘-ing’ at the end of the verb, ‘diet’.
The correct answer is,
‘I'm so hungry because I have been dieting.’
Great job, everyone.
Let's move on.
Thank you so much for watching this
grammar course on the present tense.
Now, I want you to watch the next
grammar course on the past tense.
I’ll see you there.
Hi, everyone.
In this video, I will introduce the past simple
English tense.
This grammar tense can help you explain a
past general state, action, or habit.
There's a lot to learn and it's a very important
tense, so keep watching.
In this video, I will talk about the 'be'
verb
in the past simple tense.
The 'be' verb in the past simple tense can
be used to describe a past general state.
We use the 'be' verbs, ‘was’ and ‘were’
in this tense.
Take a look at the examples.
‘I was scared.’
‘James', or he 'was a teacher.’
‘She was sad.’
‘My dog was hungry.’
‘My dog’ can be ‘it’.
So for ‘I’, ‘he’, ‘she’, ‘it’,
we use the past tense 'be' verb, ‘was’.
However, for ‘you’, ‘we’ and ‘they’,
we use ‘were’.
‘You were a good student.’
‘Your parents, or they were at the park.’
and ‘We were at home for two hours.’
In this last sentence, you see that the duration
is emphasized.
Great job.
Let's move on.
Now I will talk about regular verbs in the
past simple tense.
Take a look at these examples.
‘Liam played a game.’
Liam is a ‘he’,
but really it doesn't matter for regular verbs
in the past simple tense.
Because no matter what the subject is, all
we have to do is add ‘d’ or ‘ed’
to the end of the verb.
Here the verb is ‘play’, so I added ‘-ed’.
‘Liam played a game.’
‘The car, or it needed gas.’
The verb here is ‘need’.
For the past simple tense, I added ‘-ed’.
‘We watched a movie.’
Again, an ‘ed’ at the of ‘watch’.
‘You exercised for an hour.’
In this case, the verb is ‘exercise’.
I only need to add a ‘d’ to make it the
past tense.
And finally, ‘They usually worked after
school.’
The verb is ‘work’.
And I added an ‘ed’
to make it in the past tense.
The word ‘usually’ shows that this was
a habit.
Remember, the past simple tense can be used
to show past habits.
Let's move on.
Now, I'll talk about irregular verbs in the
past simple tense.
Remember, for regular verbs, we only add ‘d’
or ‘ed’ to make a verb into the past tense.
However, for irregular verbs, we have to change
the verb in a different way.
Let's take a look at some examples.
‘I ate with my friend.’
The verb here is ‘ate’.
‘ate’ is the past simple tense of ‘eat’.
The next example says, ‘Nara wrote a story.’
The verb is ‘write’.
And because it's irregular to change it into
the past tense, we change the verb to ‘wrote’.
‘You often came home late.’
The verb here is ‘come’ and it's been
changed to ‘came’.
You'll notice that we had the word ‘often’
to show a habit.
‘We bought a camera.’
The verb here is ‘buy’ and it's been changed
to ‘bought’ to show the past simple tense.
And finally, ‘My parents sent me money for
a year.’
Here the verb ‘sent’ is the past tense
of ‘send’.
Here we also see ‘for a year’, this shows
duration.
Let's move on.
Now I will talk about the negative form for
the 'be' verb in the past simple tense.
Here are some examples.
The first one says, ‘I was not hungry.’
For the past simple tense, the negative 'be'
verb
I f the subject is ‘I’, ‘he’, ‘she’
or ‘it’, we say ‘was not’.
For example, ‘I was not’ or ‘she was
not’ or the contraction ‘wasn't’.
‘I wasn't’.
‘She wasn't’.
So let's look again, ‘I was not hungry.’
‘She wasn't home today.’
Now, if the subject is ‘you’, ‘we’
or ‘they’,
We say ‘were not’ or the contraction ‘weren't’.
‘The children, or they were not quiet.’
‘The children were not quiet.’
And then, ‘The dog', or it was not, or 'wasn't
playful.’
Let's move on.
Now, let's talk about how to form the negative
in the past simple tense for non-'be' verbs,
regular or irregular.
Here are some examples.
‘I did not like him.’
What we do for non-'be' verbs is simply put
‘did not’ after the subject.
And you'll notice that for the verb, we don't
make any changes.
We keep the base verb.
‘He didn't catch the ball.’
Again, it's ‘he did not’,
but here we used a contraction,
‘He didn't catch the ball.’
‘They didn't dance.’
Again, here's the contraction for ‘did not’.
And you'll notice that for the verb, we didn't
change it at all.
Here's an irregular verb, and here's a regular
verb, we keep them in the base form.
And finally, ‘We didn't think about that.’
Again, we simply say ‘did not’ or ‘didn't’.
Let's move on.
Now I will introduce two ways to form questions
for the past simple tense.
Take a look at the first example.
‘He was angry.’
In this first sentence, we see the 'be' verb
‘was’.
It's quite easy.
All you have to do to turn this into a question
is switch the order the first two words.
‘Was he angry?’
You can answer by saying ‘Yes, he was.’
or ‘No, he wasn't.’
The next sentence also has a 'be' verb.
‘They were comfortable.’
So again, switch the first two words.
‘Were they comfortable?’
The answers can be, ‘Yes, they were.’
or ‘No, they weren't.’
However, look at the third sentence.
‘Sam lived here.’
There is no 'be' verb in this sentence.
Instead, we see the action verb ‘lived’.
So what we do is no matter what the subject,
we start the question with ‘did’.
‘Did Sam live here?’
You'll notice that the verb no longer is in
the past tense.
We use the base form of the verb.
‘Did Sam live here?’
You can say ‘Yes, he did.’
or ‘No, he didn't.’
The last sentence is similar.
‘They won the contest last year.’
The verb here is ‘won’, that's not a 'be'
verb.
So again, we start the question with ‘did’
.
And then the subject ‘they’, we use the
base form of the verb and that's ‘win’.
‘Did they win the contest last year?’
You can say, ‘Yes, they did.’
or ‘No, they didn't.’
Let's move on.
Now I'll introduce how to create an answer
WH questions in the past simple tense.
Take a look at the board.
We have some WH words here.
‘What’
‘When’
‘Where’
and ‘Why’
You'll notice that after each WH word comes
the word ‘did’.
‘What did’
‘When did’
‘Where did’
and ‘Why did’.
What comes after that the subject and then
the base form of the verb.
So, let's take a look.
‘What did you do last night?’
I can answer by saying something like, ‘I
watched a movie.’
Or ‘I read a book.’
You'll notice that the answer is in the past
simple tense.
‘When did you get home last night?’
‘I got home at 10 p.m.’
‘Where did they eat lunch?’
‘They ate lunch at home.’
Again, ‘ate’ is the past tense of ‘eat’.
Answer in the past simple tense.
And finally, ‘Why did the company hire him?’
‘The company hired him because he's a hard
worker.’
Let's move on.
In this first checkup, we'll take a look at
practice questions
using the 'be' verb in the past simple tense.
Remember the 'be' verbs in the past simple
tense are ‘was’ or ‘were’.
Let's take a look at the first sentence.
‘He __ at work earlier.’
The subject here is ‘we’.
So do we use ‘was’ or ‘were’?
The correct answer is ‘was’.
‘He was at work earlier.’
The next sentence says,
‘We _____ very happy yesterday.’
If the subject is ‘we’, remember the be
verb is ‘were’.
‘We were very happy yesterday.’
Next, ‘My parents or they __ worried about
me.’
If it's 'they', remember we have to say ‘were’.
‘My parents were worried about me.’
If I want to use the negative, I can also
say ‘My parents weren't worried about me.’
And that's possible.
Now I want you to find the mistake in the
next sentence.
‘We wasn't good students.’
We wasn't good students.
Can you figure out what's wrong?
The subject here is ‘we’, so we don't
say ‘was not’.
We need to say ‘were not’ or the contraction
‘weren't’.
‘We weren't good students,’ is the correct
answer.
The next one says, ‘Were she a teacher?’
Now, this is a question so the be verb comes
at the beginning.
That's correct, but the subject here is ‘she’.
Therefore, we need to start with ‘was’.
‘Was she a teacher?’
And finally,
‘They wasn't at school.’
The subject is ‘they’, so the answer is
‘They weren't at school.’
You can use the contraction ‘weren't’
or ‘were not’.
Let's move on to the next checkup.
Now, let's practice regular verbs in the past
simple tense.
Take a look at the first sentence.
‘He ____ at home.’
The verb is ‘study’.
Remember, when changing a regular verb into
the past tense,
we add ‘d’ or ‘ed’ to the end of the
verb.
However, there's a separate rule for words
that end in ‘y’.
Such as, ‘study’.
We drop the ‘y’ and we add ‘ied’.
So the correct answer is,
‘He studied at home.’
The next sentence says, ‘We __ pencils.’
We want to use negative because it says ‘not
use’.
Remember for the negative, we always use ‘did
not’, no matter what the subject.
You can also use the contraction ‘didn't’.
Now, what do we do to the verb?
We keep it as ‘is’.
We do not change it.
‘We didn't’ or ‘We did not’ use pencils.
The next sentence says, ‘His friends or
they walk to the gym.’
What's the past tense of ‘walk’?
We simply have to add ‘ed’ because it's
a regular verb.
‘His friends walked to the gym.’
Now, find a mistake in the next sentence.
‘She didn't likes math.’
‘didn't’ is correct.
However, remember we keep the verb as ‘is’
in the base form.
So we don't say ‘likes’.
We say ‘like’.
‘She didn't like math.’
The next sentence says, ‘Did it rained this
morning?’
Now this is a question.
In a question, it’s right to start the sentence
with ‘Did’.
‘Did it rained?’
Do you notice the mistake?
Remember, we do not use the past tense form
in the question.
We use the base form of the verb.
‘Did it rain this morning?’
And finally, ‘They not play the piano.’
The verb is an action verb.
So we need a ‘did’ in front of ‘not’.
‘They did not play the piano.’
Let's move on to the next checkup.
Now, I'll talk about irregular verbs in the
past simple tense.
Take a look at the first sentence.
‘He __ to school.’
And the verb is ‘run’.
‘run’ is an irregular verb, so the past
tense form is ‘ran’.
‘He ran to school.’
The next sentence says, ‘We __ flowers.’
We want to use the negative because here it
says ‘not grow’.
Remember, no matter what the subject in the
negative form,
we say ‘did not’
or ‘didn't’.
Then we keep the verb in its base form.
‘We did not grow’ or ‘We didn't grow
flowers.’
The next sentence says, ‘Where __ you teach
last year?’
This is a question.
Again, all we need to put is ‘did’.
‘Where did you teach last year?’
It doesn't matter what the subject is.
We always go with ‘did’.
Next, try to find the mistake in the next
sentence.
‘He didn't sold newspapers.’
Remember, in the negative, ‘didn't’ is
correct for whatever subject there is.
However, we need to keep the verb in its base
form.
So the correct answer is, ‘He didn't sell
newspapers.’
The next sentence says, ‘Did she sing a
song?’
You'll notice it's a similar problem here.
‘sang’ is the irregular past tense form
of ‘sing’.
But in a question, if it starts with ‘did’,
we use the base form.
‘Did she sing a song?’
And finally, ‘We taked it home.’
Does that sound right?
‘taked’ is not correct.
The past tense of ‘take’ is ‘took’.
‘We took it home.’
Great job, everyone.
Let's move on.
Wow, we learned a lot in this video.
Keep studying and reviewing the past simple
tense.
It's an essential tense that will help you
talk about the past.
Keep studying English and I'll see you in
the next video.
Bye.
Hi, everybody.
I'm Esther.
In this video.
I will introduce the past continuous
tense.
This tense can be used to describe an action
that was ongoing in the past.
It can also be used to describe two actions
happening at the same time in the past.
There's a lot to learn so let's get started.
Let's take a look at the first usage of the
past continuous tense.
This tense can be used to describe an action
that was ongoing in the past.
Let's take a look at these examples.
‘I was walking in the park in the evening.’
So first we start with the subject, ‘I’.
For I, he, she, and it, we follow with ‘was’.
‘I was’
And then we add an ‘ING’ to the end of
the verb.
‘I was walking’
Now take a look at the whole sentence.
‘I was walking in the park in the evening.’
You can see that this was an ongoing action
and it happened in the past.
Let's look at the next example.
‘She was living here last year.’
Here, the subject is ‘she’.
So again we use ‘was’ and then ‘verb-ing’.
Here we have another expression that shows
that this action was happening in the past.
‘The dog,’ or ‘it’, ‘was eating
dinner five minutes ago.’
The subject here is ‘the dog’ which can
be replaced by the pronoun ‘it’.
And so we follow with ‘was’.
And finally, ‘Andy and Jim,’ we can replace
this with ‘they’.
For ‘you’, ‘we’ and ‘they’, we
use ‘were’.
‘They were’, or ‘Andy and Jim were working
at 9:00 p.m.’
Let's move on.
The past continuous tense is also used to
describe an ongoing
action in the past that was interrupted by
another action.
This interrupting action is used in the past
simple tense with the word ‘when’.
Let's take a look at this example.
‘I was playing cards when you called.’
Again we start with the subject ‘was’
or ‘were’,
and then ‘verb-ing’,
so this is the action that was ongoing in
the past,
‘I was playing cards’
The interrupting action in this sentence is
‘you called’.
You'll notice I use the word ‘when’ to
show the interrupting action’
And I used it in the past simple tense, ‘called’.
Let's take a look at the next sentence.
‘The cat' or 'it' was eating when Eric came
home.’
Again the action in progress is ‘the cat
was eating’.
And ‘Eric came home’, you'll notice the
past simple tense.
This is the interrupting action used with
the word ‘when’.
‘We were sleeping when Anne arrived.’
Again we have the ongoing action in the past.
The subject here is ‘we’.
And so we used ‘were’ and then ‘verb-ing’.
‘When Anne arrived’ is the interrupting
action.
And finally, ‘Alicia and I’, or ‘We'
were walking when we saw Mark.’
‘When we saw Mark’ is the interrupting
action that interrupted the ongoing ‘Alicia
and I were walking’.
It's also important to note that we can also
switch the order of the sentence around and
say,
‘When you called, I was playing cards,’
or ‘When Eric came home, the cat was eating.’
Let's move on.
Another usage for the past continuous tense
is to talk about two actions that were
happening at the same time in the past.
We use the past continuous tense for both
actions with the word ‘while’.
Let's take a look at some examples.
The first sentence says,
‘While I was playing soccer, she was watching
me.’
You'll notice that both actions are in the
past continuous tense.
‘I was playing soccer’ and ‘She was
watching me’.
The word ‘while’ at the beginning shows
that these actions were happening at the sametime.
‘While you were reading, I was preparing
dinner.’
Again both actions are expressed in the past
continuous tense.
The word ‘while’ shows that they were
happening at the same time.
‘While Her husband’ or ‘he’, ‘was
driving
she was taking pictures.’
Both actions are in the past continuous tense.
And finally,
‘While we were eating, the music was playing.’
Both actions were happening at the same time.
Now, you'll notice that in my examples the
word ‘while’ comes at the beginning,
however, it's important to note that you can
move the word ‘while’ around in several
ways.
For example, instead of saying this,
‘While I was playing soccer, she was watching
me.’
I can move ‘while’ to the middle of the
sentence.
‘I was playing soccer while she was watching
me.’
I can put the ‘while’ between the two
actions.
Or I can also change the sentence around and
say,
‘While she was watching me, I was playing
soccer.’
So it doesn't matter which action comes first
with the ‘while’ if you put it in the
beginning.
Let's move on.
Now let's talk about the negative form of
the past continuous tense.
Here are some examples.
‘She was not reading last night.’
The subject is ‘she’ and so we use ‘was’.
However, before the ‘verb-ing’, we add
‘not’.
‘She was not reading last night.’
I can use a contraction and say,
‘She wasn't reading last night.’
‘We were not listening to music this morning.’
In this case, the subject is ‘we’ and
so we use ‘were’.
Again ‘not’ comes before the ‘verb-ing’.
‘We were not listening to music this morning.’
Again I can use a contraction and say,
‘We weren't listening to music this morning.’
And the next one says,
‘He wasn't watching TV when his dad came
home.’
In this example, the contraction is already
there for you,
‘He wasn't watching TV’.
You'll notice the word ‘when’.
Remember ‘when’ + ‘a past simple tense
verb’ shows an interrupting action,
so, ‘When his dad came home he wasn't watching
TV.’
He was doing something else.
And finally,
‘They weren't talking while the game was
playing.’
The word ‘while’ is in this sentence.
Remember that shows 2 past ongoing actions
happening at the same time,
so ‘While the game was playing they weren't
talking’.
They were doing something else.
Let's move on now.
Let's talk about how to form ‘be’ verb
questions for the past continuous tense.
Take a look at the first statement.
It says,
‘It was raining this morning.’
In order to turn this into a question, it's
quite easy,
all we have to do is change the order of the
first two words.
Instead of ‘It was’, I now say ‘Was
it’ to make it a question.
You'll notice that the rest of the words stay
in the same place.
‘Was it raining this morning?’
You can answer by saying,
‘Yes, it was.’ or ‘No, it wasn't.’
The next statement says,
‘They were living there when the fire happened.’
To turn this into a big question, again we
just switched the order of the first two words.
Instead of ‘They were’, we say ‘Were
they’.
And again, the rest of the words can stay
in the same place.
‘Were they living there when the fire happened?’
And you can answer by saying,
‘Yes, they were’ or ‘No, they weren't.’
Let's continue on.
Now I'll go into how to make WH questions
for the past continuous tense.
You'll notice that the examples here all begin
with some WH words.
For example,
‘what’, ‘where’, ‘why’, and ‘who’.
Let's take a look at the first question.
‘What were they doing last night?”
The subject of this sentence is ‘they’.
So what you do is after the WH word you put
the proper ‘be’ verb.
In this case, ‘were’.
‘What were they doing last night?’
You'll notice that after the subject comes
the ‘verb-ing’.
‘What were they doing last night?’
I can answer by saying,
‘They were playing games’ or
‘They were reading a book’.
The next question says,
‘Where was he working last week?’
In this case the subject is ‘he’ and so
the be verb to use is ‘was’.
‘Where was he working last week?’
I can say, ‘He was working in Canada.’
‘Why was she crying when she finished the
book?’
In this case, the subject is ‘she’ and
so I put ‘was’ after ‘why’.
‘Why was she crying when she finished the
book?’
I can say, ‘She was crying because the ending
was sad.’
And finally,
‘Who were the children staying with while
their mom was working?’
In this case, ‘the children’ is a ‘they’
so we follow 'who' with ‘were’.
‘Who were they’ or
‘Who were the children staying with while
their mom was working?’
To answer, I can say, ‘The children’ or
‘They were staying with their dad.’
Let's move on.
In this section, let's do a checkup for the
past continuous tense.
Take a look at the first sentence.
‘Last night they were blank at school.’
I want you to try to fill in the blank with
the negative for the verb ‘stay’.
‘not stay’
What do you think it is?
Remember, for the negative of the past continuous,
all you have to do is put ‘not’ and then
‘verb-ing’ after the 'be' verb.
‘They were not staying at school last.’
‘Last night, they were not staying at school.’
The next sentence says,
‘Two days ago you blank soccer.’
Again try the negative for the verb ‘play’.
‘Two days ago blank not play soccer.’
In this case, the first thing that's missing
is the ‘be’ verb.
If the subject is ‘you’, can you think
of which be verb needs to be put in there?
The correct answer is ‘were’.
And then, we say ‘not’.
What happens after that?
Remember, ‘verb-ing’.
So ‘you were not playing’
‘two days ago, you were not playing soccer’
You can also use a contraction and say,
‘You weren't playing soccer.’
Now try to find the mistake in the next sentence.
‘Yesterday, she were reading at home.’
hmmm
The subject of this sentence is ‘she’
so the ‘be’ verb to use is not ‘were’.
It's 'was'.
‘Yesterday, she was reading at home.’
In the next sentence it says, ‘Tomorrow,
they were seeing their friends.’
hmmm
‘They’ and ‘were’
That's correct.
And we have the ‘verb-ing’
So what's the mistake?
Remember the past continuous is for the past.
‘Tomorrow’ is not the past.
So instead, we need to put a word that shows
the past.
For example, I can say, ‘yesterday’.
‘Yesterday, they were seeing their friends.’
Let's move on.
Now, let's start a checkup of the ‘when’
usage
of the past continuous tense.
Take a look at the first example.
It says, ‘Andrea and John’ blank when
they bank hurt.’
Remember ‘when’ shows an interrupting
action.
It needs to be used with the past simple tense.
So let's first look at the second blank.
‘When they blank hurt’
What's the past tense of the verb ‘get’?
The answer is ‘got’.
Now let's take a look at the action that was
in progress in the past.
‘Andrea and John’ or ‘they’
Well what comes after ‘they’?
‘were’.
‘Andrea and John were’
Then remember we need to add -ing to the verb.
‘They were skiing’ or ‘Andrea and John
were skiing when they got hurt’.
The next example says, ‘It blank not raining
when the game blank’.
And I want you to use the verb ‘start’
for the second blank.
Take a look ‘when the game blank’ what's
the past tense of ‘start’?
‘started’
Now let's look at the first part of the sentence.
The subject is ‘it’.
So what ‘be’ verb do we use for 'it'?
‘was’
‘It was not raining when the game started.’
Now find the mistake in the next sentence.
‘I wasn't study at the library yesterday’.
The subject here is ‘I’ and so the ‘be’
verb ‘was’ is correct.
Here there's a contraction, ‘I wasn't’
for ‘I was not’.
Now the problem is with the verb.
Remember we need to put ‘–ing’ at the
end of the verb.
‘I wasn't studying at the library yesterday.’
And finally,
‘We did meet our friends last weekend.’
That sounds right, but remember we're doing
the past continuous tense.
Take a look again.
The subject is ‘we’.
We need a ‘be’ verb.
‘were’
Then what happens?
Remember, we need to add an ‘-ing’ to
the end of the verb,
so we take out ‘did’ and say,
‘We were meeting our friends last weekend.’
Let's move on.
Now, for this checkup, we'll look at the ‘while’
usage of the past continuous tense.
Take a look at the first example.
‘While I blank someone blank my bike.’
When we use ‘while’ in the past continuous
tense,
we're showing that two actions happened at
the same time in the past
or they were happening at the same time in
the past.
So we need to use the past continuous for
both actions.
‘While I blank’
I want you to use ‘shop’ in the first
blank.
Remember, the subject here is ‘I’ so I
need to use the ‘be’ verb ‘was’.
Then ‘verb-ing’.
‘While I was shopping’
Now ‘someone’ can be a ‘he’ or ‘she’.
Therefore, again we need to use ‘was’
and then the ‘verb-ing’ of ‘steal’.
‘While I was shopping, someone was stealing
my bike.’
The next sentence says,
‘While he blank’
I want you to use the verb ‘cook’.
The subject is ‘he’ and so I need to use
‘was cooking’.
‘While he was cooking, his girlfriend was
cleaning.’
Did you get that?
Let's move on.
Try to find the mistake in the next sentence.
‘Jane was looking for us while we get off
the plane.’
The first part of the sentence is correct.
‘Jane was looking’
Now the second part of the sentence.
Notice it's not in the past continuous tense.
‘While we get off the plane’
So what we need to do is say, ‘were getting’.
‘Jane was looking for us while we were getting
off the plane.’
The next sentence says, 'I was watching TV
while my wife sleep’
Again this part of the sentence did not use
the past continuous tense.
My wife is a ‘she’ and so I need to say
‘was sleeping’.
‘I was watching TV while my wife was sleeping.’
Great job, everyone.
Let's move on.
Good job, everybody in learning the past
continuous
tense.
This tense can be a little difficult and a
little tricky.
Especially when it comes to the ‘when’
and ‘while’ usage.
It'll take some practice to really master
it, but I know you can do it.
Keep studying English and I'll see you in
the next video.
Hi, everybody.
I'm Esther.
In this video, I will introduce the past perfect
tense.
This tense is used to describe an action that
took place at a specific time in the past.
This tense can be a little tricky,
but don't worry I will guide you through it.
There's so much to learn and it's a very important
tense.
So keep watching.
Let's take a look at the first usage of the
past perfect tense.
This tense can be used to describe an action
in the past
that happened before another action in the
past.
Here are some examples.
‘I have visited China before I moved there.’
No matter what the subject you follow with
‘had’,
So that's easy.
‘I had’
‘Steve had’
‘The plane had’
and ‘We had’.
Then, we follow with the past participle of
the verb.
In this case, it's ‘visited’.
‘I had visited China.’
Now you'll notice that the second verb is
in the past simple tense.
‘I moved there.’
And I'll talk about that a little bit more
later on.
‘Steve had bought the book.’
Again, ‘subject’, ‘had’ and ‘past
participle’.
In this case, the verb is ‘buy’.
‘Steve had bought the book before he read
it.’
Again, we have the simple tense of ‘read’
which is ‘read’.
And finally, ‘The plane had left by the
time I got to the airport.’
Again, the first part of this sentence is
in the past perfect tense.
‘The plane had left’.
This is the past participle of ‘leave’.
The second verb says, ‘I got to the airport.’
‘got’ is the past tense of ‘get’.
Now what these three sentences have in common
is that you'll see, ‘before’.
‘before’ or ‘by the time’.
They all mean the same thing.
The verb that is in the past perfect tense
happened first.
The verb that's in the past simple tense happen
after.
So again, for the first example.
‘before I move there’
That happened later.
Before that, ‘I had already visited China.’
Do you understand how that works?
Let's take a look at the last example.
‘When they arrived, we had already started
the game.’
So maybe they were late or something had happened.
But ‘When they arrived’, this is the past
simple tense.
So this happened second.
‘We had already started the game.’
This action had already started.
It started before this action.
Let's move on.
Earlier I mentioned that the past perfect
tense can be used to describe an action
that happened in the past before another action
in the past.
We can do the same thing but also emphasize
the duration.
How long that first action happened.
We do this by using four and a duration.
Let's take a look.
‘I had owned my computer for two months
before it broke.’
This is very similar to the first usage.
‘I had’ and the past participle of the
verb.
This part shows the action that happened earlier
in the past.
The second part, ‘it broke’.
The past simple tense verb shows the action
in the past
that happened later than the first action.
However, you'll notice that this sentence
has a duration, ‘for two months’.
‘I had owned my computer for two months
before it broke.’
All I'm doing here is showing how long the
first action had been true.
Let's take a look at the next example.
‘Jim had been lonely for a long time until
he got a puppy.’
Again, we have subject ‘had’, past participle.
And then we have the past simple ‘he got
a puppy’.
All we're doing here is emphasizing
how long first action had been true.
He had been lonely for a long time.
That is until the later action, ‘he got
a puppy.’
And finally, ‘She and I had been friends
for many years before she became my wife.’
The first part of the sentence is the past
perfect.
It happened before she became my wife.
But I want to explain how long that had been
true for many years.
Let's move on.
Now I'll introduce how to form the negative
in the past perfect tense.
Take a look at the board.
The first sentence says, ‘I had not eaten
at the restaurant before I went yesterday.’
Again, we have the past perfect tense here
and the past simple tense here.
This one is the action that happened earlier
in the past
And this one over here is the action that
happened later in the past.
However, because this is the negative,
what I'm going to do is add a 'not' between
the ‘had’ and the past participle of the
verb.
So I say, ‘I have not eaten’.
Or I can use the contraction
and say, ‘I hadn't eaten at the restaurant
before I went yesterday.’
The next sentence is very similar.’
‘She had not been to the circus before she
went last week.’
Here's the action that happened earlier in
the past,
and here's the action that happened later
in the past.
However, again, because it's negative,
I put a 'not' between ‘had’ and the past
participle of the verb.
Also, I can use the contraction and say,
‘She hadn't been to the circus.’
The next sentence says,
‘The cat hadn't chased the bird for very
long before it flew away.’
Remember, we can show duration,
or how long the first action was true.
by using 'for' and a duration.
Because this is the negative form,
again, I use 'had not' after the subject and
before the past participle of the verb
In this case, the contraction ‘hadn't’
is already there for you.
‘We hadn't known each other for three months
before we married.’
That's a pretty short time.
It shows the duration by saying ‘for’,
How long?
‘three months’
Let's move on.
Now, let's take a look at questions using
‘had’ in the past perfect tense.
Take a look at the first sentence.
It says, ‘She had eaten lunch by noon.’
Now, to turn this into a question is quite
easy.
All you have to do is change the order of
the first two words.
So instead of ‘she had’, we say ‘Had
she’.
‘Had she eaten lunch by noon?’
You can say,
‘Yes, she had.’
or ‘No, she hadn't.’
The next sentence says,
‘It had rained before they left.’
Again simply switched the order of the first
two words.
Instead of ‘It had’, say ‘Had it’
to make a question.
‘Had it rained before they left?’
To reply you can say,
‘Yes, it had.’
or ‘No, it hadn't.’
Let's move on now.
I'll go into how to form ‘WH’ questions
in the past perfect tense.
Let's take a look.
Here we see at the beginning
of each question a 'WH' word.
‘where’, ‘who’, ‘what’,
and ‘how’.
Let's take a look at the first question.
‘Where had he traveled before?’
You'll notice that after each ‘WH’ word,
we have ‘had’.
And then the subject and then the
past participle of the verb.
‘Where had he traveled before?’
The next question says,
‘Who had she talked to before?’
This is the same thing the ‘WH’ word
‘had she’ and then the past participle.
You'll notice here that we have the word ‘before’,
but we didn't write a specific point in time.
If you see that it simply means before now.
The next question says,
‘What had he eaten before lunch?’
Again we follow the same formula, however,
here it says ‘lunch for you'.
The last one says,
‘How long had she known him before she dated
him?’
Again how long ‘had’ + ‘subject’ and
then the past participle.
Let's take a look at how
to answer these questions.
‘Where had he traveled before?’
‘He had traveled to Europe.’
is one possible answer.
‘Who had she talked to before?’
Here I can say, ‘She had talked to her brother.’
‘What had he eaten before lunch?’
‘He had eaten sushi before lunch.’
And finally, ‘How long had she known him
before she dated him?’
‘She had known him for three years.’
That is one possible answer.
Let's move on.
Now let's take a look at some practice exercises
for the basic usage of the past perfect tense.
Take a look at the first sentence.
‘I blank for six hours before I had a break.’
The verb here is ‘work’.
Remember, we need to say ‘I had’.
No matter what the subject is, say ‘had’.
And then, you take the past participle of
the verb.
In this case, we would say ‘worked’.
‘I had worked for six hours before I had
a break.’
For the next sentence, I want you to try the
negative form.
‘We blank TV before we listened to the radio.’
Remember, for the negative form, we say ‘had
not’
or we use the contraction, ‘hadn't’.
‘We hadn’t’.
And then, we need the past participle.
‘We hadn't watched TV before we listened
to the radio.’
Now find the mistake in the next sentence.
‘Reggie had it be to Mexico before he went
to Peru.’
Well, we have the subject here
and for the negative, ‘hadn't’ is correct.
However, we need the past participle of the
verb ‘be’.
So the correct answer is,
‘Reggie hadn't been to Mexico before he
went to Peru.’
And finally, ‘Sally and Jan or they had
do their job.’
Hmm.
Remember, we need the past participle.
We don't say do.
We say ‘done’.
‘Sally and Jan had done their job before
they watched TV.’
Let's move on.
In this checkup, we'll take a look at some
practice exercises
for the past perfect tense that describes
how long.
Let's take a look at the first sentence.
‘You blank at the park for three hours before
you came home.’
Remember, we start with the subject and then
‘had’.
So I'm going to add that here,
then we need the past participle of the verb
‘be’.
And that is ‘been’.
‘You had been at the park for three hours
before you came home.’
The next sentence says,
‘They blank for six hours before they took
a break.’
Again, no matter what the subject,
we have ‘had’ and then the past participle.
So the answer is,
‘They had studied for six hours before they
took a break.’
Now, find the mistake in the next sentence.
It's a little bit longer so it might take
you a while.
‘They had been known each other for ten
years before they had their first fight.’
Can you find the mistake?
Well, we have the subject and ‘had’,
but check this out.
There are two past participles here.
We need to get rid of one of them.
We can take out this verb and say,
‘They had known each other for ten years
before they had their first fight.’
The next sentence says, ‘I have played soccer
for many years before I scored my first goal.’
This sentence doesn't look wrong at first.
But remember, in the past perfect tense, we
need to say ‘had’.
‘I had played soccer for many years before
I scored my first goal.’
Good job, everybody.
Let's move on.
Great job, everyone.
Now you have a better understanding of the
past perfect tense.
I know it can be a little difficult but keep
studying,
and keep practicing,
and you will get better.
I know studying English is not easy but with
time and effort,
I know you'll master it.
Thank you so much for watching and I'll see
you in the next video.
Hi, everybody.
I'm Esther.
In this video, I will introduce the past perfect
continuous tense.
It's a great tense that helps you express
an ongoing action
in the past continuing up to another point
in the past.
There's a lot to learn, so keep watching.
One usage of the past perfect continuous tense
is to talk about an ongoing action in the
past
that continued up to another point in the
past.
You can use ‘for’ and a duration to talk
about
how long that action was in progress.
Here are some examples.
‘I had been waiting for the bus for two
hours before it arrived.’
You'll notice that at the beginning.
It doesn't matter what the subject is, we
follow with ‘had been’.
For example, ‘I had been’,
‘Chuck had been’,
And ‘Tom and Kim had been.’
And then we follow with the verb ‘-ing’.
‘waiting’.
‘I had been waiting.’
Now this is the ongoing action that happened
first.
Again, four and two hours shows the duration.
The second part says, ‘it arrived’.
This verb is in the past simple tense.
Therefore, that is the second action.
It's the action that this first action happened
until this action happened,
so again,
‘I had been waiting for the bus,’ happened
first.
And then, it happened until the bus arrived.
‘Chuck had been cooking,’
Again, that part's easy.
No matter what’s the subject, we say ‘had
been’ and then verb ‘-ing’.
Again, I can show how long Chuck had been
cooking by saying ‘for an hour’, showing
the
duration.
And then, I finished by saying, ‘before
he finished’.
He had been cooking up to this point in the
past.
Finally, ‘Tom and Kim had been walking,’
This part should be familiar to you by now,
‘for an hour’
Again, that shows duration.
‘before they rested.’
So they had been walking for an hour before
they took a break.
Before they rested.
Let's move on.
The past perfect continuous tense is also
used to express cause and effect in the
past.
The verb that's in the past perfect continuous
tense shows the cause,
why something happened.
We can use ‘because’ or ‘so’ to show
the cause and effect.
Here, I'll explain.
‘Jason was tired because he had been jogging.’
The first part of the sentence is in the past
tense.
‘Jason was tired,’
However, we see ‘why?’
Well, because, ‘he had been jogging’.
The second part of this sentence is in the
past perfect continuous tense.
‘he had been’, remember no matter what
the subject,
we follow with ‘had been’ and jogging
– ‘verb -ing’.
‘he had been jogging’
This shows why Jason was tired.
The next sentence says,
‘The pavement’ or it ‘was wet because
it had been raining.’
Similar to the first sentence, ‘it had been
raining’ shows the cause.
Why was the pavement wet?
‘The pavement was wet because it had been
raining.’
In this sentence, we see a little difference.
‘The children had been playing’
Again, this is the past perfect continuous
tense.
‘had been playing’
The second part says, ‘the room was a mess’.
So here, instead of ‘because’ like the
first two sentences,
I used ‘so’.
So the order has been changed but the meaning
is the same.
This, ‘the children had been playing’
is why the room was a mess.
This is the cause and this is the effect.
Let's move on.
Now let's go into the negative form of the
past perfect continuous tense.
Here are some examples.
‘I had not been working for a day before
I quit.’
So no matter what the subject ‘I’, ‘you’,
‘she’, or ‘it’,
just like in the affirmative, we say ‘had’,
but after the ‘had’, in the negative form,
we add ‘not’.
‘had not’
or you can use the contraction ‘hadn't’.
Which is a combination of ‘had’ and ‘not’
together.
‘I had not been working’
The rest of the sentence is the same.
‘been + verb -ing’
‘I had not been working for a day before
I quit.’
The next sentence says,
‘You had not been cutting onions for long
before you cried.’
Again, the ‘not’ goes between ‘had’
and ‘been’.
‘She hadn't been studying for long when
she fell asleep.’
Here, we have the contraction.
And finally,
‘It hadn't been snowing for long when it
stopped.’
Again, we have the contraction for ‘had
not’ here.
You'll notice that in the first two sentences,
I used ‘before’.
And in the last two, I used ‘when’.
Either one can be used to show when the first
action stopped.
Let's move on.
Now let's go into how to form basic questions
in the past perfect continuous tense.
Here is the first example.
‘He had been driving all day before he arrived.’
Now, to turn this into a question, all we
have to do is change the order of the first
two words.
Instead of ‘He had’, now I can say, ‘Had
he’, in order to form a question.
‘Had he been driving all day before he arrived?’
The next sentence says,
‘The dog had been barking because it was
scared.’
In this case, the subject is ‘The dog’.
And then we follow with ‘had’.
To turn this into a question, again, we switch
the order.
‘Had the dog been barking because it was
scared?’
You'll notice that in the question, the rest
of the words stay in the same place.
Now, in the first question, we're asking how
long an action happened,
or how long it was ongoing in the past.
And in this question, we ask about cause and
effect.
Let's move on.
Now, I'll introduce how to form WH questions
in the past perfect continuous tense.
Take a look at these examples.
You'll notice that they all start with a WH
word.
Why, where, what, and who.
You might also have noticed that after we
have ‘had’.
‘Why had’
‘Where had’
‘What had’
and ‘Who had’
In the first question, after that comes the
subject.
‘Why had you’
And then ‘been + verb -ing’
And that's the same pattern we follow for
all of these sentences.
So ‘Why had you been studying so much?’
I can answer by saying,
‘I had been studying so much because I have
a test.’
‘Where had you been traveling before you
came here?’
I can say,
‘I had been traveling through Asia.’
‘What had they been playing before they
played soccer?’
I can answer, ‘They had been playing baseball.’
And finally,
‘Who had she been talking to before she
left home?’
I can answer, ‘She had been talking to her
boyfriend.’
Let's move on.
Let's start a checkup for the past perfect
continuous tense.
Take a look at the first sentence.
It says, ‘They __ for a long time before
they went home.’
Try to fill in the blank with the verb ‘work’
in this tense.
Remember, no matter what the subject,
we follow the subject with ‘had been’.
So we say, ‘They had been’.
What happens to the verb?
Remember, we add ‘-ing’.
So the sentence is, ‘They had been working
for a long time before they went home.’
Now, take a look at the second sentence.
I want you to use the negative.
‘I __ TV for a year before I started again.’
Remember, the negative form for this tense
starts with the subject
and then ‘had not been’.
Or I can use the contraction ‘hadn't’.
‘I hadn't been’
And then again, verb ‘-ing’.
‘I hadn't been watching TV for a year before
I started again.’
Now, try to find the mistake in this next
sentence.
‘Gina and I hadn't been do any work before
we started.’
What's the error?
You'll notice that the verb does not have
an ‘-ing’.
To make the sentence correct,
we must say, ‘Gina and I hadn't been doing
any work before we started.’
Now, find the mistake here.
‘He had be watching YouTube because he had
some free time.’
‘He had’, that's correct, but we need
to change ‘be’ to been’.
And ‘watching’ is correct.
So, ‘He had been watching YouTube because
he had some free time.’
Let's move on.
Now, let's move on to another checkup of the
past perfect continuous tense.
Take a look at the first example.
It says, ‘The company __ employees because
they worked hard.’
Use the verb ‘promote’ in the past perfect
continuous tense.
Remember, no matter what the subject, we follow
with ‘had been’.
So we say, ‘The company had been’ and
then verb ‘-ing’, so ‘promoting’.
‘The company had been promoting employees
because they worked hard.’
The next example says, ‘I __ your emails
for a while because they went to the spam
folder.’
Here, try to use the negative form with the
verb ‘get’.
Remember, in the negative form, we say ‘had
not been getting’
Or the contraction ‘hadn't been getting’.
‘I hadn't been getting your emails for a
while because they went to the spam folder.’
Now look for the mistake in the next sentence.
‘I had been work a lot because I needed
the money.’
What's the mistake?
Remember, we need to add ‘-ing’ to the
verb.
‘I had been working a lot because I needed
the money.’
The last sentence says,
‘He has been smoking because he was stressed.’
Can you find the mistake?
Remember, we're practicing the past perfect
continuous.
In this case, we need ‘had’ after the
subject, not ‘has’.
Great job, everyone.
Let's move on.
Thank you so much for watching this
grammar course on the past tense.
Now, if you haven’t had a chance to check
out my grammar course on the present tense
or the future tense, make sure you do that now.
Thank you again for watching and I will see you
next time.
Bye.
Hi, everyone.
I'm Esther.
In this video, I will introduce the future
simple tense
using 'will' and 'be going to'.
This is a very important tense that will help
you express future actions and plans.
There's a lot to learn, so let's get started.
The future simple tense can be used to express
a future action.
Let's take a look at some examples.
‘I'm cold.’
Well that's right now.
‘I will close the window.’
We start with the subject ‘will’.
And then, the base verb.
‘I will close the window.’
In this example, I'm making a sudden decision
because how I feel right now.
I will close the window because I'm cold right
now.
‘I will be at the library tomorrow.’
Again, you start with the subject and then
‘will’.
After that, you have the base verb.
You can use the ‘be’ verb to talk about
a confirmed plan.
‘I will be at the library tomorrow.’
The economy will get better next year.
In this case, the subject is ‘the economy’.
Again, we follow with ‘will’ and the base
verb ‘get’.
‘The economy will get better next year.’
I'm making a prediction here about something
that will happen in the future.
And finally, ‘I will help you with your
homework.’
I'm making a future plan to help you.
‘I will help you with your homework.’
It doesn't say when but I am talking about
the future.
Let's move on.
You can also use ‘be going to’ to express
a future action.
It's almost the same as ‘will’.
Here are some examples.
‘There's no milk.
I'm going to buy some.’
So what you see here is the subject and then
the ‘be’ verb - ‘am’.
‘I am’
And then here we used a contraction
‘I'm’.
‘I'm going to buy some.’
I made a decision to buy some because there's
no milk.
The next sentence says,
‘It looks like it's going to snow tomorrow.’
Here the subject is ‘it’ and so I use
the ‘be’ verb – ‘is’.
‘it is’
‘It's’ is the contraction.
‘It's going to’
And then we use the base verb ‘snow’.
The word ‘tomorrow’ shows that this is
a future action.
‘He's going to take a trip in the summer.’
Because the subject is ‘he’, we use the
‘be’ verb – is.
And we can use the contraction ‘he's’.
‘he is’ or ‘he's’ going to
And then the base verb ‘take’
‘take a trip in the summer’
Again an action happening in the future.
Let's move on.
Now, let's take a look at the negative form
of
the future simple tense.
The first example says,
‘Stan will not like his English score.’
No matter what the subject is,
we follow with ‘will not’ and then the
base form of the verb.
‘Stan will not like his English score.’
‘We won't give you money anymore.’
In this case, the subject is ‘we’.
And we follow with the contraction ‘won't’.
It sounds really different and it's different
from other contractions,
but ‘won't’ is the contraction for ‘will
not’
so you can say ‘we will not’ or ‘we
won't’.
They're the same.
‘We won't give you money anymore.’
Again, you notice the base verb ‘give’
after ‘not’.
‘He is not going to fly until next week.’
This sentence uses ‘be going to’.
The subject is ‘he’.
And therefore the ‘be’ verb we use is
– ‘is’
However we put a ‘not’ after the ‘be’
verb.
‘He is not going to …’
And then the base verb.
‘He is not going to fly until next week.’
The last sentence says,
‘You are not going to go to the party tonight.’
The subject is ‘you’ and so we use the
‘be’ verb – ‘are’.
‘You are not going to go …’
That's the base verb.
‘… to the party tonight.’
Let's move on.
Now let's take a look at how to form basic
questions in the future simple tense.
The first sentence says,
‘He will play with us.’
To turn this into a question,
all we have to do is change the order of the
first two words.
So ‘He will becomes ‘Will he’.
‘Will he play with us?’
‘The next sentence says,
‘He is going to play with us.’
This one uses ‘be going to’.
The subject is ‘he’.
And so the ‘be’ verb to use is – ‘is’.
Then we have ‘going to’ and then the base
verb.
‘He is going to play with us.’
When I make a question, I simply again change
the order of the first two words.
‘Is he going to play with us?’
Now if the subject were to be ‘you’ or
‘we’ or ‘they’,
we would say ‘they are’.
And so the question would say,
‘Are they'.
'Are they going to play with them?’
for example.
So again, remember, for ‘will’ in the
future simple tense,
just say ‘will’ subject and then the base
form of the verb.
However for ‘be going to’ questions,
make sure that you pay attention to the proper
'be' verb to use
at the beginning of the question.
To answer the first question,
‘Will he play with us?’
You can say ‘Yes, he will’ or ‘No, he
won't’.
‘Is he going to play with us?’
You can say, ‘Yes, he's going to’ or ‘No,
he isn't going to’.
Let's move on.
Let's look at how to form ‘WH’ questions
in the future simple tense.
If you notice each question begins with a
‘WH’ word.
Who
When
Where
And What
The first two sentences use ‘will’ for
the future simple tense.
‘Who will win the game?’
To answer I can say,
‘My team will win the game.’
‘When will they arrive?’
‘They will arrive in two hours.’
Now these two sentences have ‘be going to’.
‘Where is he going to study?’
In this case, I have the ‘be’ verb – ‘is’
because the subject is ‘he’.
‘Where is he going to study?’
I can say, ‘He is going to study at the
library.’
And finally,
‘What are you going to do?’
In this case, I use the ‘be’ verb – ‘are’
because the subject is ‘you’.
‘What are you going to do?’
‘I am going to take a shower.’
Let's move on.
For this checkup let's take a look at the
will usage for the future simple tense.
The first example says,
‘Jen and Paul [blank] home soon’
with the verb ‘go’.
Remember, when using ‘will’ for the future
simple tense,
it doesn't matter what the subject is.
We say ‘will’ and then the base verb.
So here we can say, ‘Jen and Paul’ or
‘They will go home soon’.
‘I [blank] a scientist after I graduate.’
Try filling in the blank with ‘be’.
Again, we simply say ‘will be’.
‘I will be a scientist after I graduate.’
Now try this one,
‘We [blank] that because it smells bad.’
I want you to use the negative form with the
verb ‘eat’.
Here we say, ‘will not eat’ or remember
we can use the contraction ‘won't’.
‘We will not eat that’ or ‘We won't
eat that because it smells bad’.
Now look for the mistake in this sentence.
‘I will eat a pizza for lunch.’
Remember, we need the base form of the verb.
‘Angie and I will playing a game.’
Again we need the base form of the verb.
Angie and I will play a game.’
And finally, ‘Will she be cook dinner?’
This is a question.
However we need to say,
‘Will she cook dinner.’
We do not need a ‘be’ verb here.
Let's move on.
Let's practice the ‘be going to’ usage
of the future simple tense.
‘We [blank] going to _blank_ soccer.’
I want you to use the verb ‘watch’.
Remember, for ‘be going to’ in the future
simple tense,
we start with the subject and then the ‘be’
verb.
The subject here is ‘we’.
So we need the ‘be’ verb – ‘are’.
‘We are going to’ and then the base verb
‘watch’.
‘We are going to watch soccer.’
‘I [blank] going to [blank].’
The verb is ‘talk’.
And I want you to use the negative form.
In this case, the subject is ‘I’.
And so I use the ‘be’ verb – ‘am’.
‘I am’ and then we need ‘not’.
‘I am not going to’
Then the base verb ‘talk’.
‘Why [blank] you going to [blank]?’
The verb here is ‘go’.
In a question, especially a ‘WH’ question,
we start with the ‘WH’ word,
and then the ‘be’ verb.
‘are’ is the correct ‘be’ verb because
the subject is ‘you’.
Then we have ‘going to’.
And again, the base form of the verb.
‘Why are you going to go?’
Now try to find the mistake in the next sentence.
‘You are going to studying at home.’
Can you find the mistake?
‘You are going to’ that's correct.
But we need the base form of the verb.
‘You are going to study at home.’
‘You will be going to learn English.’
‘You will be going’
That sounds a little strange.
Remember, we don't need the ‘will’ here.
We're using ‘be going to’ and we need
to change the ‘be’ verb to match the subject.
‘You are going to learn English’.
Or remember, you can also say,
‘You will learn English.
and finally
‘Is he going to do play soccer.’
uh-oh
We have two verbs here.
‘Is he going to’ - that's correct.
But we have ‘do’ and ‘play’.
We don't need both, so we say,
‘Is he going to play soccer?’
Great job everybody.
Let's move on.
Great job, everyone.
You now have a better understanding of the
future simple tense.
There's still a lot of practice you need to
do because this tense is so important.
Keep studying and I'll see you in the next
video.
Hi, everybody.
I'm Esther.
In this video, I will introduce the future
continuous English grammar tense.
This tense can be used to express an ongoing
action in the future.
I'll go over the basics of this lesson.
And by the end you'll have a better idea of
when to use this tense.
There's a lot to learn, so let's get started.
One usage of the future continuous tense
is to talk about an ongoing action that will
happen in the future.
We include when this action will be happening.
We can use ‘will be’ or ‘be going to
be’.
To do this, let's take a look at some examples.
‘I will be taking the test soon.’
So you can see here we have the subject and
then ‘will be’.
After that, we include verb +ing.
The word ‘soon’ at the end of this sentence
indicates when this action will be happening.
‘I am going to be taking the test soon.’
This sentence means the same thing as the
first sentence,
but instead of ‘will be’, we used ‘be
going to be’.
Here the subject is ‘I’.
And therefore we have the ‘be’ verb ‘am’.
‘I am going to be’
And then verb +ing.
‘I am going to be taking the test soon.’
I can also use the contraction and say.
‘I'm going to be taking the test soon.’
The next sentence says,
‘He will be sleeping by 10 p.m.’
And the last sentence says,
‘They are going to be …’
Here, because the subject is ‘they’, we
use ‘are’.
‘They are going to be studying …’
There's the verb +ing
‘… next October.’
‘by 10 pm’ and ‘next October’ show
when these actions will be happening.
Let's move on.
The future continuous tense is also used to
show
that a short action in the future is happening
during or while a longer action is in progress
in the future,.
We can use the word ‘when’
to show when the shorter action occurs.
Take a look at the first example,
‘I will be sleeping when they arrive.’
Here we see two actions,
‘I will be sleeping’ and ‘they arrive’.
The part of the sentence that's in the future
continuous tense is the longer action
that's in progress in the future.
‘I will be sleeping.’
Remember, ‘I will be’ and then verb +ing.
This is the action that is ongoing in the
future.
Then we see ‘when they arrive’.
This is in the present tense.
‘they arrive’
This is the shorter action
that happens while this action is ongoing.
‘We will be having dinner when the movie
starts.’
This is very similar to the first sentence.
‘We will be having dinner …’
That's the ongoing action that will happen
in the future.
And while this is happening,
the movie will start.
But again, we use the present tense here.
‘the movie starts’
So we will be having dinner when the movie
starts.
‘Tina is going to be working when you leave.’
Remember, we can use ‘be going to be’
in this tense so,
‘She is going to be working when you leave.’
This shorter action will happen while this
ongoing action is in progress.
And finally, ‘It will be raining when you
go shopping’.
Again, this is the ongoing action.
And this is the shorter action.
Let's move on.
Now, I'll talk about the negative form of
the future continuous tense.
Here are some examples:
‘He will not be reading before bed.’
For the negative form, after the subject and
‘will’, we say ‘not be’.
And then verb +ing.
‘He will not be reading before bed.’
He'll be doing something else.
The next sentence says,
‘My dad won't be cheering when the game
ends.’
So this is very similar to the first sentence.
We have the subject, ‘my dad,’
and instead of ‘will not’ we use the contraction
‘won't’.
Remember, ‘won't’ is a contraction for
‘will not’.
‘My dad won't …’
and then we have ‘be’ verb +ing.
‘My dad won't be cheering when the game
ends.’
The next sentence says,
‘He is not going to be working tomorrow.’
Here we have the ‘be going to be’.
So ‘he’ is the subject and so we use the
‘be’ verb ‘is’.
After the ‘be’ verb, we say ‘not’.
He is not going to ‘be’ verb +ing.
‘He is not going to be working tomorrow.’
Remember, we can also use a contraction here
and say,
‘He isn't going to be working tomorrow.’
That's okay as well.
‘We aren't going to be shopping on Sunday.’
Here the subject is ‘we’.
And so the ‘be’ verb to use is ‘are’.
I use the contraction here ‘aren't’ for
‘are not’.
‘We are not …’ or ‘We aren't going
to be shopping on Sunday.’
Great job.
Let's move on.
Now let's talk about how to form basic questions
in the future continuous tense.
Take a look at this first sentence.
It says,
‘He will be traveling next month.’
Now, to turn this into a question,
all you have to do is change the order of
the first two words.
So ‘He will’ becomes ‘Will he’.
‘Will he be traveling next month?’
You'll notice that the rest of the words don't
change.
Only the first two words.
So, ‘Will he be traveling next month?’
To answer you can say,
‘Yes, he will.’
or ‘No, he won't.’
The next sentence says,
‘They are going to be living there.’
Again to turn this into a question, simply
switch the order of the first two words.
‘They are’ becomes ‘Are they’.
‘Are they going to be living there?’
To reply you can say,
‘Yes, they are.’
or ‘No, they aren't.’
Now, you'll notice in these two sentences,
there is no exact point in time that shows
when this action will be happening in the
future.
There is no ‘next month’ or anything like
that.
In that case, it simply means sometime in
the future.
So, they are going to be living there sometime
in the future.
That's what that means.
Great job, everyone.
Let's move on.
Now, I'll go into how to form ‘WH’ questions
in the future continuous tense.
Take a look at the board.
First, you'll notice that all of these questions
begin with the ‘Wh’ words -
‘Where,’ ‘What,’ ‘Who,’ and ‘When’.
Let's take a look at the first question.
‘Where will he be working?’
When we use ‘will be’, we start with ‘Where’
and then ‘will’.
After that, we have the subject + be and then
verb +ing.
‘Where will he be working?’
I can answer by saying,
‘He will’ or ‘He'll be working at the
factory.’
The next question says,
‘What will she be watching?’
This is very similar to the first question.
The only difference is that the subject is
now ‘she’ and the verb is different.
‘What will she be watching?’
I can say, ‘She'll be watching’ or ‘She
will be watching her favorite tv show’.
‘Who will they be talking to?’
Again, very similar.
To answer,I can say,
‘They will be talking to their mom.’
The last question has ‘be going to be’.
‘When are we …’ here the subject is
’we’.
So we start with the ‘be verb’ – ‘are’.
‘When are we going to be meeting Casey?’
I can say,
‘We are going to be meeting Casey
later tonight.’
Good job, everybody.
Let’s move on.
Let's start a checkup for the future continuous
tense.
Take a look at the first sentence.
It says, ‘They _blank_ at school tomorrow.’
I want you to use ‘will' and then the verb
‘study’, for this tense.
Remember, in the future continuous
tense,
no matter what the subject, we say ‘will
be’ and then verb +ing.
So the correct answer for this sentence is
‘they will be studying’
‘They will be studying at school tomorrow.’
The next sentence says.
‘Jesse _blank_ a TV show later.’
Here, instead of ‘will’ try to use ‘be
going to be’.
‘Jesse _blank_ watch a TV show later.’
I want you to use the verb ‘watch’.
So, Jessie is a ‘he’ or it can be a ‘she’.
Sometimes the name is used for a boy or a
girl.
Either way I need to use the ‘be’ verb
– ‘is’.
‘Jesse is going to be’
and then we need verb +ing.
‘Jesse is going to be watching a TV show
later.’
The next sentence, I want you to find the
mistake.
‘We willn’t be studying at the library
today.’
‘We will not …’
What's the contraction for ‘will not’?
Well it definitely isn't ‘willn’t’.
The contraction is ‘won't’.
‘We won't be studying at the library today.’
And finally, ‘Sally and I will be meet our
friends soon.’
Remember, we need ‘will be’ and then verb
+ing.
So the correct answer is,
‘Sally and I will be meeting our friends
soon.’
Good job, everyone.
Let's move on.
Now, let's move on to the next checkup of
the future continuous tense.
Take a look at the first sentence.
It says, ‘He _blank_ at the door when the
movie ends.’
I want you to use ‘will’ and the verb
‘wait’.
Remember, for this tense, we need ‘will
be’ and then verb +ing,
so the correct answer is,
‘He will be waiting at the door when the
movie ends.’
The next sentence says,
‘We are not …’ so this is a negative,
‘_blank_ the play when he performs’.
Here, instead of ‘will’, I want you to
use ‘be going to be’ and the verb ‘see’.
We already have part of that phrase for you.
‘We are …’, here's the ‘be’ verb,
‘not’
so this is negative.
And then we say ‘going to be’
and then verb +ing.
‘We are not going to be seeing the play
when he performs.’
Now find the mistake in this sentence.
‘They won't be stay at home when the delivery
man visits.’
‘They won't be’
That's correct in the negative form.
However, we need verb +ing.
‘They won't be staying at home when the
delivery man visits.’
And finally, ‘Terry is going to working
when the manager arrives’.
‘Terry’ is a ‘he’ or ‘she’ so
‘is’ is the correct ‘be’ verb to use.
‘going to’ that's also correct.
What we're missing here is ‘be’.
‘Terry is going to be working when the manager
arrives.’
Good job, everybody.
Let's move on.
Now, you have a better understanding of the
future continuous tense.
Please take some time to study and practice
this tense as it is very important.
I know English can be a struggle, but don't
worry, I'm here for you.
And I believe in you.
I'll see you in the next video.
Hi, everyone.
I’m Esther.
In this video, I will introduce the future
perfect tense.
This tense is used to express an action in
the future
that will happen by a specific time in the
future.
This tense can be a little difficult to understand
but don't worry I will guide you through it
so keep watching.
The future perfect tense is used to express
an action in the future
that will happen by a specific time in the
future.
Let's look at some examples.
The first sentence says,
‘The snow will have stopped by April.’
We start with the subject.
In this case, ‘The snow’.
Then, we follow with ‘will have’ and the
past participle of the verb.
In this case, we used ‘stopped’ for the
verb ‘stop’.
At the end of the sentence, you'll notice
‘by April’.
‘by April’ shows the specific time in
the future when this action will have happened.
The next sentence says,
‘By the time he graduates, he will have
completed five years of study.’
In this sentence,
‘By the time he graduates’
or the specific time in the future.
comes at the beginning of the sentence
so ‘by’ plus ‘a time in the future’
can come at the end
or it can come at the beginning.
‘By the time he graduates, he will have
completed…’
Again, you see ‘subject + will + have’
and the past participle of the verb.
In this case, ‘completed’.
‘By the time he graduates, he will have
completed five years of study.’
The next sentence says,
‘Her arm will have fully healed by the summer.’
In this example, ‘by the summer’, the
future specific time, comes at the end.
By this time in the future, her ‘arm’,
that's the subject, will have ‘healed’,
the past participle.
Here I put ‘fully’ just to show how much
it will have healed.
I’m just adding an extra description.
The last sentence says,
‘By next month, …’ so here we see ‘by’
and ‘the time’ at the beginning of the
sentence.
‘you’, that's the subject.
‘will have received’, there's the past
participle.
‘your promotion.’
Again, ‘By next month you will have received
your promotion.’
Let's move on.
Now, let's talk about the negative form of
the future perfect tense.
Here are some examples.
Let's take a look.
The first sentence says,
‘I will not have graduated from university
by July.’
First, I want to point out that at the end,
I have the specific time in the future,
‘byJuly’.
Now for the negative form, what I do is say,
‘subject’ and ‘will not have’,
then we put the past participle of the verb.
‘I will not have graduated from university
by July.’
The next sentence says,
‘Ollie and Max will not have spoken ...’
There it is again, ‘will not have’ and
then the past participle of speak ...
which is ‘spoken’.
‘… before the plane leaves.’
Here, instead of the word ‘by’, we used
‘before’ to show a specific time in the
future.
That's okay as well.
The next sentence says,
‘You will not have eaten dinner by 6 p.m.’
Here, again, we've used ‘by 6 p.m.’ to
show a time in the future.
And again, you see ‘you will not have’
and then the past participle of eat which
is ‘eaten’.
The last sentence says,
‘By noon …’, there's the time again,
‘I will not have taken off to Japan.’
‘taken’ is the past participle of ‘take’.
Let's move on.
Now, let's move on to how to form questions
in the future perfect tense.
The first sentence here says,
‘You will have gone to work by 10 a.m.’
To turn this into a question, all we have
to
do is switch the order of the first two words.
‘You will’ becomes ‘Will you’.
You'll notice that the rest of the question
stays the same as the sentence.
‘Will you have gone to work by 10 a.m.?’
You can answer by saying,
‘Yes, I will have.’
or ‘No, I will have not.’
The next sentence says,
‘She will have woken up by noon.’
Again, to turn this into a question just switch
the first two words.
‘She will’ becomes ‘Will she’.
‘Will she have woken up by noon?’
Again, the rest of the sentence stays the
same.
‘Will she have woken up by noon?’
To reply, you can say,
‘Yes, she will have.’
or ‘No, she will have not.’
Let's move on.
Now, I'll talk about how to form ‘WH’
questions in the future perfect tense.
If you notice on the board, each of these
questions begins with the ‘WH’ word.
‘Where’, ‘what’, ‘who’, and ‘when’.
Then after each ‘WH’ word comes the word
‘will’.
‘Where will’
‘What will’
‘Who will’
and ‘When will’
So let's take a look at the first question.
‘Where will’…’ then you add ‘the
subject’.
In this case, ‘you’.
And then, ‘have’ and after that the past
participle of the verb.
In this case, it's ‘traveled’.
‘Where will you have traveled by December?’
I can answer by saying,
‘I will have traveled to Germany and Denmark.’
There are many possible answers here and this
is just an example.
The next question says,
‘What will they have done …’
‘done’ is the past participle of ‘do’.
‘… by the end of the evening?’
I can answer by saying,
‘They will have done their homework.’
The next question says,
‘Who will she have interviewed by 5 p.m.?’
Again, ‘who will’ + the subject ‘have’
and the past participle of the verb.
I can answer this question by saying,
‘She will have interviewed the teachers
by 5 p.m.’
And finally, ‘When will they have started
to learn?’
One way to answer this question is to say,
‘They will have started to learn in January.’
Let's move on.
Let's start this checkup for the future perfect
tense.
Take a look at the first sentence.
It says,
‘We _blank_ that book by tomorrow.’
The verb to use is ‘read’.
Remember, in the future perfect tense, we
start with the subject,
and we have that here, ‘we’.
Then say, ‘will have’ and the past
participle of the verb.
So here we need to say ‘will have’.
What is the past participle of ‘read’?
The correct answer is ‘read’.
They're spelled the same, but they are pronounced
differently.
‘We will have read that book by tomorrow.’
The next sentence says,
‘She _blank_ the video by bedtime.’
Here we have ‘not’ so I want you to try
the negative form.
And the verb to try is ‘watch’.
In the negative form, we start with the subject.
And instead of ‘will have’, we say ‘will
not have’.
‘She will not have …’
Then we need the past participle of the verb.
In this case, it is ‘watched’.
‘She will not have watched the video by
bedtime.’
Now find the mistake in the next sentence.
‘Ryan will not have be to Cuba by summer.’
This is the negative form because we have
‘will not have’.
That's correct.
But we need the past participle of ‘be’.
So we need to change it to ‘been’.
‘Ryan will not have been to Cuba by summer.’
The last sentence says,
‘I will have go to school by 8 30 a.m.’
Here, we have the affirmative, ‘will have’.
But, uh oh, we forgot the past participle
of ‘go’ which is ‘gone’.
‘I will have gone to school by 8 30 a.m.’
Great job, everybody.
Let's move on.
Good job, guys.
Now you have a better understanding of the
future perfect tense.
I want you to keep studying and practicing
this tense.
I know studying English can be difficult,
but I believe in you
and I will guide you through it.
I'll see you in the next video.
Hi, everybody.
I’m Esther.
Welcome to the last tense.
If you haven't checked out my earlier videos
on the tenses,
please go check them out now.
In this video, I will talk about the future
perfect continuous tense.
This tense can be used to describe an ongoing
action
or situation that will last for a specified
period of time in the future.
There's a lot to learn, so keep watching.
The future perfect continuous tense is used
to talk about an ongoing situation
that will be in progress for a period of time
at a specific point in time in the future.
Let's take a look at some examples.
The first sentence says,
‘She will have been living in Ireland for
10 years at that point.’
So no matter what the subject, in this case
we have ‘she’,
we follow with ‘will have been’ and then
‘verb +ing’.
So, ‘She will have been living in Ireland
…’
Then this sentence has the duration.
What period of time will this last?
‘for 10 years’
And when?
Remember, we need a point in time in the future.
In this case, we just use a general expression,
‘at that point’.
Here, it's not specific and that's okay.
We'll see some specific examples in the next
sentence.
‘By midnight, he will have been sleeping
for four hours.’
Here, the specific time in the future comes
at the beginning of the sentence.
‘By midnight’
And, again, we see ‘will have been’ +
verb 'ing'.
‘By midnight, he will have been sleeping
for four hours.’.
Here we have ‘for four hours’.
This shows the duration or how long this action
will be in progress.
So, again, ‘By midnight he will have been
sleeping for four hours.’
The last sentence says, ‘In June …’
Here, again, we have the specific time in
the future at the beginning of the sentence.
‘In June, ‘we’ that's the subject.
‘we'll have been studying …’
There's the ‘verb +ing’.
‘… at this university for four years.’
Here is the duration, ‘for four years’.
Good job.
And let's move on.
Now, let's look at the negative form of the
future perfect continuous tense.
In the affirmative form, we say ‘subject’
+ ‘will have been’ and then ‘verb +ing’.
In the negative form, however, we say, ‘subject’
+ ‘will not have been’
and then ‘verb +ing’.
Let's take a look at some examples.
The first sentence here says,
‘At that point, I will not have been living
in Spain for 10 years.’
And so you see it.
‘I’ is the subject.
‘… will not have been’
and then ‘verb +ing’.
In this case, ‘living’.
The next sentence says,
‘He will not have been sleeping for four
hours by midnight.’
Again, we see the ‘subject’ + ‘will
not have been’ and then ‘verb +ing’,
‘sleeping’.
The last sentence says,
‘By then, we will not have been studying
at this university for three years.’
Again, we see the ‘subject’ + ‘we will
not have been’ and then ‘verb +ing’
here, ‘studying’.
Let's move on.
Now let's take a look at how to form questions
in the future perfect continuous tense.
Here, the sentence says,
‘Sean will have been playing soccer for
a year by December.’
To turn this into a question, all we have
to do is switch the order of the first two
words.
So instead of ‘Sean will’, I can say ‘Will
Sean’.
‘Will Sean have been playing soccer for
a year by December?’
You'll notice that the rest of the sentence
stays the same.
I can answer by saying,
‘Yes, he will have.’
or ‘No, he will have not.’
The next sentence says,
‘They will have been working there for three
months by that time.’
Again, I changed the order of the first two
words.
To turn this into a question ‘They will’
becomes ‘Will they’.
‘Will they have been working there for three
months by that time?’
Again, the rest of the sentence stays the
same.
I can answer by saying,
‘Yes, they will have.’
or ‘No, they will have not.’
Let's move on.
Now let's take a look at how to form ‘WH”
questions in the future perfect continuous
tense.
Take a look at the board.
All of these questions begin with a ‘WH’
word.
‘where’
‘what’
‘who’ and
‘how long’
Take a look at the first question.
‘Where will you have been walking?’
To form a ‘WH’ question, we start with
the ‘WH’ word, then ‘will’.
After that, we add the subject, ‘you’,
‘they’, ‘she’ and ‘you’.
After that, we add ‘have been’ + ‘verb
+ing’.
‘Where will you have been walking?’
‘What will they have been playing?’
‘Who will she have been talking to?’
and ‘How long will you have been working
…?’
There's the ‘verb +ing’.
‘ … there by the time you finish?’
So let's go through one more time and I'll
show you how to answer these questions.
‘Where will you have been walking?’
I can answer by saying,
‘I will have been walking in the park.’
‘What will they have been playing?’
‘They will have been playing video games.’
‘Who will she have been talking to?’
‘She will have been talking to her cousin.’
And finally,
‘How long will you have been
working there by the time you finish?’
‘By the time I finish, I will have been
working there for five years.’
Let's move on.
Let's start a checkup for the future perfect
continuous tense.
Take a look at the board.
The first sentence says,
‘By 10 p.m., I _blank_ that game for three
hours.’
I’m looking to use the verb ‘play’.
Remember, in this tense, we need to have ‘subject’
+ ‘will have been’ and then ‘verb +ing’.
So ‘By 10 p.m., I will have been playing
…’
Again, we need ‘verb +ing’.
‘… I will have been playing that game
for three hours.
The next sentence says,
‘When she gets here, he _blank_ dinner for
an hour.’
Try to use the verb ‘cook’.
Again, no matter what the subject, it doesn't
change.
‘When she gets here, he will have been cooking
…’
dinner for an hour.’
Now, find the mistake in the next sentence.
‘Steve and Jan will not have be waiting
for a year when it arrives.’
Here, we have a negative form, ‘they will
not have’.
Then we need ‘been’.
‘They will not have been …’
And then the ‘verb +ing’ is here so that's
correct.
‘Steve and Jan will not have been waiting
for a year when it arrives.’
The last sentence says,
‘It will have been work for 10 years on
January 15th.’
So maybe here I’m talking about a computer
or a TV.
Maybe some kind of machine.
‘it’
‘It will have been …’
I see the mistake here.
We need ‘verb +ing’.
‘It will have been working for 10 years
on January 15th.
Great job, everybody.
Let's move on.
Thank you so much for watching this
course on the twelve English tenses.
Now, you have a better understanding
of how to use these tenses.
I know studying English can be hard, but
with time and practice, you will get better.
Please watch my other videos.
And I’ll see you next time.
Bye.